ffiRA¡SIOModern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for fiscal year 202LJanuary 202t - 3L December 202LRaisio plc is an international company focusing on healthy, responsibly produced food and fish feeds.Raisio's key markets include Finland, the UK, lreland, Poland and Russia. Our well-known brandsinclude Benecol and Elovena. Raisio plc is a Finnish company established in 1939. At the end of 2021,the Raisio Group's continuing operations employed some 390 people. Group's net sales fromcontinuous operations in2O2L totalled EUR 246 million. Raisio's shares are listed on Nasdaq HelsinkiLrd.At the end of 2021 Raisio Group had six production facilities, all located in Finland. During 2021Raisio Group acquired Verso Food Ltd including its factory at Kauhava Finland and started theproduction at the new factory at Raisio site in Finland. This report covers all subsidiaries of Raisio plc,including UK-based Benecol Ltd.Policies and current actions related to slavery and human traffickingRaisio Group complies with local and international laws and regulations, generally accepted practicesand Raisio's own guidelines. The Raisio Group respects the UN declaration of human rights,the fundamental principles and rights at work as defined by the lnternational Labour Organization(lLO). These rights cover freedom of association, the right to organise or not to organise, the rightto collective bargaining, the prohibition of forced labourand child labour, and the employees'rightto equaltreatment and opportunities. Raisio is an active part¡c¡pant in the UN Global Compactinitiative.Human rights, fundamental principles and rights at work are an integral part of Raisio Code ofConduct and Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct. The Raisio Code of Conduct applies to all RaisioGroup's operations, employees, management as well as the members of the Board and SupervisoryBoard. lt is approved by Raisio's Board of Directors. All Raisio's suppliers and sub-contractors areexpected to comply with Raisio's Supplier Code of Conduct.ln 2020, a global Human Rights Policy was defined for the Raisio Group and it was approved byRaisio's Board of Directors. lt complements the company's Code of Conduct and is applied in allRaisio's Group companies globally. The policy is found athttps://www. ra isio.com/en/responsibilitv/reports-a nd-basis-of-responsibilitv/.Risk assessmentsRaisio is a listed company headquartered in Raisio, Finland. Raisio's production facilities and themajority of employees are located in Finland, a country with high standards and strict regulation forlabour rights. Raisio Group policies and Code of Conduct are implemented globally to all employees.The company's risk assessment shows that possible human right risks are mainly related tothe supply chain. For the assessment of human right risks related to its procurement, Raisio usesBSCI's risk country classification, which guides to procure from low-risk countries. Currently, most ofRaisio 6roup . P.O.Box 101, Fl-21201 Raisio, Finland . Tel +358 2 443 2111. firstname.surname@raisio.comffiRAISIORaisio's raw materials and services are purchased from low-risk countries, such as Finland andCentral Europe. The company purchases a small part of its raw materials from the higher-riskcountries and in these cases, we pay special attention to the supplier's procedures.Due diligenceRaisio Group expects its suppliers to comm¡t to the Raisio Supplier Code of Conduct, which includesthe requirement for respect for the fundamental principles and rights at work as defined by thelnternational Labour Organization (lLO) and human rights principles of the UN Global Compactinitiative.Our key tools for ensuring responsible supply chain include engaging suppliers in the Raisio SupplierCode of Conduct, supplier self-assessments and audits, reducing purchases from countries with high-risk on human right violations and ensuring material traceability. We review our tools and risk criteriaregularly to make sure they are up-to date.Raisio's risk survey indicates that Rais¡o's major human right risks lay in our supply chain. Main risksare related to the purchase of soya, palm oil and cocoa, which together account only for aboutthree per cent of all raw materials used by Raisio. ln terms of these raw materials, Raisio's goal is touse responsibility certified raw materials only.Most of Raisio's raw materials and services are purchased from low-risk countries, such as Finlandand Central Europe. A small part of our raw materials originate from the higher-risk countries and inthese cases, we pay special attention to the supplier selection process and supplier's procedures.Raisio audits its suppliers in regular, planned and agreed intervals. The audit process follows Raisio'scriteria, which is based on supplier's or raw-material's risk profile. Risk profile consists of quality,food safety and sustainability aspects, among others. All new sub-contractors are audited.Grievance mechanismEthical conduct is defined in the Raisio Code of Conduct. ln case of any questions, employees areprimarily guided by superiors and the company's legal department. During202t we introduced anew report¡ng channel to report any suspicions of abuse. The new electronic reporting channel isavailable not only to employees, but also to Raisio Group's customers, partners and otherstakeholders, as required by the European Union's Whistleblowing Directive. The system replacedthe reporting channel previously used by Raisio. The channel can be used to report suspicions ofactivities that do not comply with Raisio's values, ethical guidelines or applicable laws. To ensure theanonymity of the reports, the reporting channel is managed by an external partner, WhistleB,Whistleblowing Centre. lnstructions for report¡ng are available on the Raisio website at raisio.com.Training and communicationAll employees are trained in the Raisio Code of Conduct. The training is part of the introductionprogramme of each new worker and is available in four languages, Finnish, English, Russian andPolish. ln addition there is an easily readable prínted leaflet on Raisio Code of Conduct and RaisioRaisio 6roup . P.O.Box 1OI, tl-2t201Raisio, Finland . l-el +358 2 443 2LLt. firstname.surname@raisio.comffiRAISIOSupplier Code of conduct. Both Raisio Code of Conduct and Raisio Supplier code of Conduct areavailable in our website www.raisio.com.Further stepsRaisio is not aware of any human right or labour right violations related to its operations. Raisiocontinues its work on responsible procurement. Human rights are an integral part of Raisio's newresponsibility program, Good Food Plan. Raisio reports yearly on its responsibility work in itsCorpoResponsibility report. The report is found at www.raisio.com/responsibilitvusnremrcEoRaisio plcRaisio Croup . P.O.Box 101, Fl-21201 Raisio, Finland . Tel +358 2 443 2771. firstname.surname@raisio.com