  M.P. Evans Group PLC (“the Company” or “the Group”) takes its responsibilities to combat slavery and human trafficking seriously. This statement is made in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out those steps taken by the Group to date to prevent slavery and human trafficking by both the Group and its suppliers. Corporate structure The Company is the holding company of a Group with its subsidiaries operating oil-palm plantations in Indonesia. The Group’s turnover derives entirely from its Indonesian plantations. As an agricultural business, the Group employs some 10,000 estate workers, as well as working with contractors who are responsible for the delivery of other services including planting and construction. In addition, the Group acquires supplies critical to its operation, including seedlings, machinery spare parts and fertiliser, from third-party suppliers. It also purchases some oil-palm fresh fruit bunches from third parties. The Group’s board has full oversight of all corporate policies and recognises the importance of modern slavery and human trafficking as a current issue. The board acknowledges the importance of having clear and well-implemented policies and procedures given the labour-intensive nature of some of the Group’s main activities. The Group’s Modern Slavery Act statement and all related policies and procedures are reviewed by the Group board annually. Internal procedures and policies M.P. Evans Group PLC has policies on sustainable and ethical business, including the detection, reporting and prevention of modern slavery or human trafficking in the Group or in any of its suppliers or business partners. Since its initial statement under the Modern Slavery Act, the Group has adapted its own employment practices to increase the number of workers that are engaged and paid individually by the Group. In addition, the Group has a whistleblowing hotline run by an independent provider, accessed by telephone, email, WhatsApp or SMS messaging, which can be used to report any concerns about modern slavery. The Group has produced training material that explains modern slavery and sets out indicators of potential modern slavery. This was translated into Indonesian and initially deployed in November 2019. Whilst there had been some delays brought about by Covid-19, all supervisory staff in Indonesia have now received training, and the training on modern slavery has been incorporated into the induction material for new joiners. Suppliers and contractors The Group assesses external contractors and independent smallholders supplying it with fresh fruit bunches as being at the highest risk of modern slavery. The Group has written to all of its suppliers and has updated its standard contractual terms to include modern slavery clauses. The Group had previously started a programme of site visits to some of its main suppliers, but these had been paused whilst Covid-19 restrictions were in place in Indonesia. Supplier visits have now restarted as restrictions have eased. A programme of monitoring of contractors operating at Group locations was developed in 2021, designed to validate that no signs of modern slavery were evident. This was rolled out by Group staff in the second half of 2021 and first half of 2022. The Group continues to work on a project with independent smallholders, supporting their journey towards certification under the RSPO’s RISS (RSPO Independent Smallholder Standard) scheme. This includes delivering training on guarding against modern slavery.    Ongoing priorities The Group remains committed to addressing the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking as a current issue. Update training will be developed and delivered to staff during the next twelve months, and the Group will continue to focus on working with its key contractors and suppliers, through both on-site monitoring and visits.   Matthew Coulson  Chief executive June 2022  