Organisation's StructureTotal Produce UK is today part of Dole plc, the world’s leading fresh produce provider. Operating out of 30 countries, our vertically integrated supply chain extends across the globe incorporating over 250 facilities. Growing, sourcing, packing, marketing and distributing over 300 lines of fresh produce, our range extends from the more familiar to the truly exotic and our mission, always, to make the world a healthier, more sustainable place.With the coming together of Total Produce and Dole Food Company to form Dole plc in July 2021, we developed a new code of conduct, the Dole plc Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as we believe in being a responsible business, responsible to our colleagues, our shareholders, our growers and suppliers, our customers, the communities in which we work and our consumers. We champion Human Rights and Worker Welfare right across the fresh produce supply chain and implement human rights practices, policies and protocols.  This statement covers all eligible UK legal entities.Our Supply ChainTotal Produce as part of Dole plc is committed to ensuring transparency with its suppliers of goods and services and is mindful as to what steps can be taken, where necessary, to combat slavery and human traﬃcking. We recognise that modern slavery is a complex supply chain issue, and we work in conjunction with our Customers, Growers, Non-Government Organisations ('NGO's') and industry bodies, both nationally and internationally to help develop sustainable solutions to address this important issue. We recognise that our function; the marketing of products, the health promoting properties of which have been ﬁrmly and deﬁnitively established, brings with it great privilege and immense responsibility in equal measure. We understand that the implicit trust attached to fresh produce remains ever contingent on a conﬁdence in the supply chain through which produce is delivered and in the integrity of those from whom it is sourced.Ours is a sector that is complex, fragmented and intrinsically international while from farm to fork, the global fresh produce supply chain is one populated by a particularly complicated set of stakeholders. Total Produce UK recognises there is, therefore, potential across the local and international fresh produce supply chain for slavery and human traﬃcking to occur.We continue to work with our supply chain partners both nationally and internationally to enhance our work in this area.Modern Slavery Statement 2021Modern Slavery Act Statement 2021Modern Slavery Statement 2021Due Diligence Processes and Supplier Adherence to Our ValuesWe require from those who supply us adherence to best horticultural practices, applying exacting ethical standards of conduct while putting in place robust protocols and practices to ensure conformance. We will not knowingly tolerate the use of forced, debt bonded, indentured labour, involuntary prison labour, slavery or human traﬃcking in our supply chain. We are further committed to maintaining and improving systems and procedures to avoid inadvertent complicity in human rights violations related to our own operations, our supply chain and our produce/products. We conduct an annual review of our key suppliers to conﬁrm they have in place standards which are comparable to those outlined in our Code, or where this is not possible, to obtain a written acknowledgment the key supplier will comply with our Code. Total Produce UK operates to the highest international standards. We: • work to the guidelines of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) • are a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) • wholly support the Stronger Together Campaign and strive to ensure the principles    and spirit which underpin this initiative, permeates throughout our operations and    those of our suppliers’ businesses across the United Kingdom and beyond2021 DevelopmentsIn July 2021 we established an Integrity Hotline where any suspected violations of our Business Code and ethics can be reported to allow the Company to promptly identify and deal with concerns before they become major problems.   There are numerous ways in which matters can be brought to the attention of Dole plc. Regardless of the method, an employee’s decision to report a suspected Code violation is protected by Dole’s zero tolerance policy toward any type of retaliation. Our Code has been widely communicated and can be accessed via a direct link at www.doleintegrity.comTotal Produce UK continue to support both FNET (Food Network for Ethical Trade) and the Spanish Ethical Forum as they are actively engaged in mitigation of risk of modern slavery in supply chains. Food Network for Ethical Trade (FNET)  In the last year we have actively participated in:- • sharing intelligence on salient modern slavery risks in the UK and abroad • working groups such as Covid-19 Support, Responsible Recruitment Fees, Worker    Representation • gaining access for our growers to the ALP (Agency for Labour Providers) webinars    and helpline to support the recruitment of workersModern Slavery Statement 2021Spanish Ethical Forum (Foros Comercio Etico) In the last year we have actively participated in: • a working group to establish the strategic 5 year plan for the ethical forum • the Communications Working Group, sharing local intelligence, investigating on     behalf  of the forum and contributing to the Ethical newsletters FPC (Fresh Produce Consortium)As long running members of the FPC we have previously been involved in developing the best practice guidance for caravan accommodation for farm workers.  During 2021, with other members, we worked with the FPC to update the accommodation guide in line with feedback from our members to ensure safe and secure accommodation for farm workers.  &Wider (Worker Voice)To understand more about the potential risks of modern slavery in our supply chain we collaborated with one of our retail customers to pilot an &Wider program in our South African supply chain. &Wider uses inclusive technologies to ensure workers who may be marginalised, illiterate and voiceless are provided with opportunities to be included and to have their experiences recognised and heard.  Although modern slavery risks were not identiﬁed in this supply chain it provided an opportunity to work closely with the grower and to have open conversations about priorities highlighted in the report outcomes. It is our ambition in 2022 that we extend the &Wider program into more of the high-risk supply chains. VSCF (Vulnerable Supply Chain Fund)We supported the ETI via our grower in Zimbabwe to participate in a VSCF funded project related to the impact of COVID in vulnerable supply chains. The program assessed business vulnerability related to COVID stigma experienced in African Culture and the potential increased vulnerability of workers to modern slavery.The assessment identiﬁed that workers were vulnerable due to the rising cost of food and potential for debt bondage due to lack of ﬁnances.  Partner Africa who carried out the assessment on behalf of the ETI identiﬁed that the grower could provide an allotment for workers to grow their own food with seeds funded by the VSCF. This reduced the need for workers to seek support from loan sharks or debt bondage to supplement their income. Modern Slavery Statement 2021Our Support NetworkTotal Produce UK, in line with its 2020 commitment, has established and participated in two Group wide initiatives: The Total Produce Technical Forum and the European Sustainability Working Group.  The forums are now well-established, intelligence gathering and support networks and Modern Slavery and Ethical are key agenda items in each area.  Total Produce UK issues regular updates and newsletters on Modern Slavery risks to our supply chain partners and growers to keep them informed of any potential risks in their country. In SummaryIn Total Produce UK, we believe that the beneﬁts of fresh produce marketing can be collective and that a balanced supply chain can deliver equitable dividends to all stakeholders, especially those working across production. This Slavery Statement serves to: • document our commitment to combating modern slavery and human traﬃcking • to invite all Total Produce UK colleagues to embrace the challenge of improving still    further and to remind all our suppliers of their role in contributing to this task.This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes a slavery and human traﬃcking statement for the ﬁnancial year 1 January to 31 December 2021.UK Board Approval received at the Board Meeting held on 27 April 2022.Mark Owen UK Managing Director  For and on behalf of Total Produce Limited    Date: References: • SEDEX http://www.sedexglobal.com/ • Stronger Together http://stronger2gether.org • ETI http://www.ethicaltrade.org/ • SMETA audit http://www.sedexglobal.com/ethical-audits/smeta/ • FNET FNET – Food Network for Ethical Trade • Foros Comercio Etico Ethical Trade Forums - Ethical Trade Forums (foroscomercioetico.com) • Foros Comercio Etico Newsletters Newsletters and Press Releases - Ethical Trade Forums (foroscomercioetico.com) • VSCF (Vulnerable Supply Chains Fund) pages 19 & 20 (Wiserow) VSCF Case Studies .pdf (ethicaltrade.org)5th May 2022