- 1 -     MODERN SLAVERY ACT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT   This statement has been published in line with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the Company’s position on the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking for the year ending December 2020.  It was approved by the Board of Directors in June 2021, being signed off by our Commercial Director, Damian Whitham.  Brook Street takes the issue of modern slavery very seriously with a zero-tolerance approach to the subject with continual review by the Board and our Operational teams.  We work with our clients and registered work seekers as part of our attempts to expose any incidents of modern slavery in the workplace.  Our efforts have continued throughout 2020 and we are pleased to report that no incidents were identified in the last year.  Our Business Brook Street (UK) Ltd is a limited company operating as both an employment agency and business in the UK.  We are a subsidiary of ManpowerGroup Inc.  Brook Street was founded in 1946, operating solely within the UK providing temporary and permanent recruitment services. We specialise in supplying office based and light industrial workers across all industry sectors.  Our workforce is therefore not only made up of our permanently engaged employees but also our registered work-seekers.   We operate from 28 offices (including administrative centres) across the country with a permanent workforce of approximately 400.  The size of our temporary workforce fluctuates throughout the year.  All the companies / organisations we supply and all the work-seekers we provide to them are met with and identified by our staff.  The hiring organisations that we work with are all located in the UK.  The work-seekers / workers we supply live in the UK.  Brook Street currently makes minimal use of other agencies in the supply of our recruitment services therefore our supply chain is limited to the use of suppliers providing goods and services such as IT equipment and stationery.  Our Policies Brook Street’s policies are established by our Board of Directors, based on advice from HR professionals, industry best practice and legal advice.  We review our policies on a regular basis, and as needed, to adapt to changes.  As a company we have the following relevant policies in place: ▪ Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy: sets out our zero‐tolerance approach to modern slavery and our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own business or in any of our supply chains ▪ Ethical Purchasing Policy: stipulates the conditions under which the Company will conduct its business in respect of the procurement of all externally supplied goods and services and requires our supply chain to provide positive assurance towards, including but not limited to, zero tolerance on human trafficking and use of any form of forced or compulsory labour and freedom of employees  ▪ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: promotes honest and ethical conduct throughout the Company, as well as provides a mechanism to report unethical conduct via the Ethics Hotline to help preserve our culture of honesty and accountability and is part of our annual update training undertaken by all employees ▪ Corporate Social Responsibility Policy ▪ Whistleblowing Policy: sets out our position on whistleblowing and encourages the reporting of any legal or regulatory violations or any failure to comply with internal regulations, ethical standards and legislation. ▪ Supply Corporate Responsibility Policy: details our expectation of suppliers to adhere to our ethical and social standards including minimum labour standards ▪ Fair Labour Practices – worker questionnaire (completed anonymously)  - 2 -    These policies are available to all employees on the Company intranet and are first introduced as part of their initial on-boarding induction when joining the Company.  Adherence to our policies is expected of all employees.    Any employee who breaches our policy on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy will face disciplinary action, which could result in dismissal for misconduct or gross misconduct. We may terminate our relationship with other individuals and organisations working on our behalf if they do not meet our corporate expectations.  Our Processes for Managing Risk  Our standard practices are designed to protect and promote human rights and fair labour practices throughout the recruitment, selection and employment of both our employees and the work-seekers we place with our clients.  Brook Street operates within all applicable recruitment legislation.   Having identified that our supply of workers to the food and light industrial sectors is at a higher risk of modern slavery than our other specialist area, our branch staff supplying into these sectors undergo Stronger Together e-Learning Preventing Modern Slavery training and display Stronger Together leaflets and posters in a variety of languages.  During 2020:  ▪ All existing employees have completed refresher ethical, including modern slavery training annually, part of which includes the Modern Slavery policy. ▪ All employees have been advised on how they can report any concerns they may have associated with Modern Slavery. ▪ Our Compliance and Audit team carried out remote audits of our branch network.  These audits include establishing we hold appropriate eligibility to work documentation, proof of national insurance numbers, references and qualifications (as relevant) for all our worker-seekers. ▪ Our Payroll Department carries out regular checks on our worker-seekers’ bank details to identify where individuals may be sharing bank accounts, or addresses, as this could be an indication of illegal behaviour. ▪ All worker-seekers have on-line access to their weekly pay records allowing them to view all deductions we legally make from their salaries.  Due diligence A commitment to human rights, fair labour practices and ethical business dealings is essential to our principle-based culture.  Brook Street: ▪ is a member of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC) and has representation on their Employment Policies Committee ▪ has held a corporate Gangmasters Licence since the inception of the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA), formally known as the GLA, which was formed as an independent body arising out of the Gangmasters (Licensing) Act 2004. Its Mission Statement is to work in partnership to protect vulnerable and exploited workers ▪ is part of the group of organisations that founded SAFERjobs (Safe Advice for Employment and Recruitment) now branded as JobsAware. This is a Recruitment Industry Counter-Fraud Forum, which is a non-profit making organisation created to raise awareness and combat criminal activities that may be attempted on those within the industry or through the services provided by the industry. JobsAware works with the Metropolitan Police, Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS), Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), Trading Standards, City of London Police, recruitment industry trade associations and private sector recruitment businesses ▪ seeks positive assurance, within our UK supply chain, that they agree to comply with the principles of our Corporate Social Responsibilities Policy, which forms part of the contract with our supply chain.  Where appropriate, we carry out due diligence on prospective suppliers, as well as auditing existing and prospective suppliers about legal and contractual compliance • takes a risk-based approach to addressing concerns that may arise from our supply chain. We expect all suppliers to operate in accordance with our Supply Chain Business Partner Policy. We procure that our supply chain disseminates these terms down to their own suppliers and subcontractors    - 3 -    Our Performance We are committed to ensuring there is transparency in our own business and in our approach to tackling modern slavery throughout our supply chains, consistent with our disclosure obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.  There haven’t been any breaches of the Modern Slavery Act reported during 2020.  We review our policies and procedures on a regular basis and as legislation may dictate to ensure not only ongoing compliance to our standards but also that our supply chain shares the same principles and commitment to the Modern Slavery Act.  Training Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidance to all our staff on the conduct of our business according to the highest moral standards. The Code and our other ethics policies help to focus our staff on the areas of this type of risk.  It offers guidance in recognising and dealing with any ethical issues and provides mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear of retaliation.   The code provides a compliance hotline for employees to inform (on an anonymous basis) any concerns with activities of the Company or the supply chain.  This can be found on the company’s intranet.  All staff are required to complete the Business Conduct and Ethics training and certification annually to build their training and knowledge on the subject.   Additionally, where we have supply arrangements in a sector where the use of modern slavery practices have been evidenced (e.g. food pickers and packers), we have introduced further training from Stronger Together for the recruitment teams involved.   Signature:      Damian Whitham     Commercial Director  Date:  16th June 2021   