1Selfridges Group Modern Slavery Statement 2021/22203 | Introduction from the Selfridges Group Managing Director04 | Who we are07 | Vision, purpose and values08 | Our governance10 | Our approach: Risk assessment11 | Our approach: Policies12 |Our approach: Due diligence processes15 |Our approach: Training and communications16 |Monitoring effectivenessContents3Our third Modern Slavery Statement for the year ending 31 January 2022, reflects on the steps taken to prevent modern slavery in our businesses and supply chains. As we emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic, I continue to be immensely proud of our team members who remain steadfastly focussed on the safety and wellbeing of colleagues, customers and partners. Following on from the launch of our Selfridges Group Vision, Purpose and Values and our Selfridges Group Code of Ethics, we have been working together across our organisation and beyond to bring these initiatives to life through our ways of working. This year saw us launch enhanced Ethical Trade Requirements and complete a cross-business due-diligence pilot, strengthening our work in these areas. We will continue to be agile in our approach to modern slavery risk, always learning, adapting and evolving with our Group Vision and Purpose always front of mind; to reinvent retail and create a sustainable future for people and planet. Through our dynamic and varied businesses which are both global and local in outlook, we are uniquely positioned in the world to leverage our collective knowledge, experience and perspective, helping create long-term sustainable value. We will continue to collaborate across Selfridges Group, with our brand partners and suppliers as well as with the wider community in driving forward best practices for the benefit of all.Introduction from Selfridges Group Managing Director, Anne PitcherWe are a family of five brands working to imagine and create a sustainable future for our people and customers. Everything we do is for our customers. We are trusted to understand their needs and desires through the fashion, beauty, home, accessories and food products and experiences we offer across our stores and digital platforms. We work closely with our third-party partners who run our distribution centres to ensure a seamless customer experience.Who we are – Our groupAnne PitcherSelfridges Group Managing Director15th June 2022 | Signed for and on behalf of Selfridges Group, SHEL Holdings Europe Limited Board of Directors4Who we areBrown ThomasIrelandIrelandCanadaUKThe NetherlandsArnottsHolt RenfrewSelfridgesde Bijenkorf5Who we areBrown ThomasIreland6 stores 2 offices1 digital store1 store1 office1 digital store7 stores 3 offices1 digital store4 stores 2 offices2 digital stores7 stores 1 office5 digital storesIrelandCanadaUKThe NetherlandsArnottsHolt RenfrewSelfridgesde BijenkorfEstablished in 1849, Brown Thomas is Ireland’s premier lifestyle retailer offering an unparalleled luxury shopping experience. It is a destination for Irish and international customers alike.Arnotts is a Dublin institution. As Ireland’s oldest and largest department store, it has held a special place in the city’s cultural history since 1843.Holt Renfrew was founded in 1837 and is Canada’s premier destination for the very best in curated fashion and beauty, offering a renowned customer experience across seven stores and digitally.Selfridges is more than a shop - and since 1909, it has been a social centre powered by imagination, curiosity and creativity.More than a department store, de Bijenkorf is a celebration of art, design, and innovation, and was founded in 1870.6Who we areOur supply chainsOur businesses neither own nor operate production or manufacturing facilities, so working closely with brand partners and suppliers is crucial to ensuring customer needs are met and ethical standards are upheld. Our businesses have three types of supply chain partners.Branded goods suppliers: Our businesses have branded items such as packaging, and some of our businesses have a small select range of own brand products. Our businesses work directly with branded goods suppliers to create these items.Brand partners: The majority of products our businesses sell are from our third-party brand partners. Our businesses do not directly source these products but curate them for our customers. Our Buying teams across the group either purchase products from our brand partners, or our concession partners offer them to our customers through our concession partner model.Suppliers of goods and services not for resale: These are suppliers our businesses directly engage with to provide the products and services which we don’t sell but which keep our businesses going. Our Procurement teams work with internal stakeholders to specify our needs in these areas, which range from office equipment, cleaning and catering to security and specialist contractors.Our peopleSelfridges Group is both global and local; and that is our strength and the source of our success. We categorise our people into three groups, all of whom come together to enable us to meet the needs and desires of our customers:Team members: Our team members include everyone who is directly employed by one of our businesses, including those who work in our stores and in our business head offices. We also have a central Selfridges Group team, made up of around 55 people, whose purpose is to support the businesses in strategy, cross-group project management, reporting and governance. We combine the collective power of the group with the rich, targeted knowledge of our customers and teams across the UK, Ireland, Canada and the Netherlands. People working on our sites: Alongside our team members, our businesses have a number of other people working on our sites, including agency workers, contractors, concession staff and consultants. They are not directly employed by our businesses but are managed by the brand partners and suppliers we contract with.Brand partners and suppliers: In addition to those people who work directly for us and on our sites, our businesses have extensive supply chains which consist of millions of workers across the world who work directly or indirectly for our brand partners and suppliers.Throughout this Statement where we refer to our businesses, it is in relation to Selfridges, Brown Thomas, Arnotts, de Bijenkorf and Holt Renfrew. We describe the consistent Selfridges Group approach in place, with examples of some of the activities individual businesses have in place. Where team members, brand  partners and suppliers are mentioned, we refer to those people or companies engaged by the businesses within Selfridges Group. The sale of Selfridges Group, originally announced in December 2021, is anticipated to complete in 2022. Following completion, Selfridges Group will be comprised of Selfridges, Brown Thomas, Arnotts and de Bijenkorf. Holt Renfrew will remain with the current owners.7Vision, Purpose and ValuesOur group vision, purpose and values: Our vision is to reinvent retail and our purpose is to imagine and create a sustainable future for our customers. We do this in a way that respects our world, builds trust, and values creativity and innovation in everything we do. Our vision, purpose and values were launched in 2020 and continue to guide our actions.CIRCULARCLIMATEMATERIALSWORKPLACELIVELIHOODSStairway to a Sustainable Future: With the launch of the new Selfridges Group vision, purpose and values, sustainability is at the heart of what we do and how we strive to create a sustainable future. Our common group sustainability framework, known as the Stairway to a Sustainable Future helps us focus our work on environmental and social issues within our industry that we believe are imperative to address. Following a materiality assessment, we have 17 focus goals within these five imperatives, with our work on improving livelihoods in our supply chains and modern slavery risk a focal point. 8Our Group Sustainability Director is responsible for the day-to-day design and management of our group sustainability programme. They, and our Group Senior Sustainability Manager, work closely with each of the Business Managing Directors and Sustainability Leads to support the development and implementation of each businesses’ sustainability strategy ensuring alignment to group key priorities. Our group governance: The Group Managing Director is ultimately accountable for our compliance with the Modern Slavery Act reporting requirements, supported by the Group Executive Committee who oversee progress of our wider sustainable business strategy.Our business governance: Sustainability risk, including that relating to modern slavery, is also included in relevant business risk management mechanisms and is discussed regularly in general business reviews.Our GovernanceGroup ChairmanGroup Senior  SustainabilityManagerExternal  organisations, forumsGroup Managing DirectorBusiness Managing DirectorsGroup Director of  InternalAuditGroup  Sustainability DirectorBusiness  SustainabilityTeams,  working groups & networksBusiness  SustainabilityLeads9Our GovernanceForumScopeMembershipCadenceBusinesses must report progress against Sustainability Stairway for review by Group Managing DirectorAdvises the Board and Audit Committee on the group’s overall risk profile. Utilising the businesses’ bottom up assessment of key risks, the Committee reviews how those risks impact the overall strategic objectives of the groupCross business forum to discuss strategic priorities for sustainabilityCross business meeting with wider sustainability team to address brand and supplier modern slavery risk Business Sustainability leads, Group Sustainability Director, Group Managing DirectorGroup Finance Director (Chair), Group Managing Director, Group Director of Financial Planning, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Director of Internal Audit, Group Talent & Leadership Development Director, Group Strategy Director, Head of Group Strategy, Group Sustainability Director, Selfridges Communications Director, Group Head of Risk & Insurance (Secretary)Group Sustainability Director, Group Senior Sustainability Manager, Business Sustainability LeadsGroup Sustainability Director, Group Senior Sustainability Manager, Business Sustainability Leads, Business Sustainability TeamsMonthlyQuarterlyMonthlyMonthlySustainability Dashboard ReportingRisk Management CommitteeSustainability Leads MeetingProduct and Materials WorkstreamTo ensure we focus our efforts where they are most needed and where we can have the greatest impact, we take a risk-based approach. We first consider our three groups of people in relation to the risk associated with their location, the industry they work in, the existing measures we have in place, and our level of control and influence.Team members: • Our risk assessment: The modern slavery risks within our team member population are low. We directly recruit and manage our team members; the countries in which we operate, although modern slavery exists, have lower prevalence than elsewhere in the world; the roles are office-based or retail which are lower risk industries; and we have formalised people policies, processes and controls in place. This year, with most head office roles working remotely, we put extra provisions in place to ensure the safety and wellbeing of our teams off site. • Our action: For this group our priority is raising the awareness of modern slavery issues, indicators and where to seek support; and ensuring the measures we have in place are appropriate and effective.People working on our sites: • Our risk assessment: The risk within the population of other people working on our sites, is higher, but still comparatively low. We do not directly recruit or manage these people, our concession or supplier partners do; as well as retail workers, they include workers in industries of higher risk such as construction, cleaning, security and other areas where temporary work is prevalent. During peak periods there may be a need to increase the number of temporary workers in our businesses to meet customer demand. However, these people are all based on our sites; we have visibility of their practices as we work alongside them; and our partners are required to ensure that the workers’ identity documents and right to work are verified.• Our action: For this group, our priority is ensuring that the suppliers who manage these people have appropriate measures in place to tackle modern slavery risk and are actively promoting available support. These suppliers in this category must agree to our Ethical Trade Requirements and complete our Self Assessment Questionnaire.Brand partners and suppliers:• Our risk assessment: We recognise that this is where our greatest modern slavery risk exists. We do not control our indirect supply chains, which span the globe and include countries and industries with a higher prevalence of modern slavery. Whilst we do have formal measures in place, including contractual requirements with our suppliers, we recognise that seeking meaningful assurance that issues do not exist and that measures are effective across all suppliers is challenging.• Our action: We have set clear expectations through updated Ethical Trade Requirements and Self Assessment Questionnaires. We have refined our due diligence process with brand partners and suppliers to establish a more aligned approach, and will continue to raise awareness of modern slavery through our businesses’ sustainability and buying teams.10Our approach: Risk assessment21/22 HighlightBrown Thomas and Arnotts Supplier ApproachIn Ireland, teams at Brown Thomas and Arnotts assessed 100% of priority goods not for resale suppliers and conducted modern slavery training with all private label and goods not for resale buyers.11Our approach: PoliciesTeam member policies and processes: Our codes of conduct, people policies and processes set out our expectations of, and our responsibilities towards, our team members. Our policies are provided to new starters, are referenced in inductions and are available on our businesses’ intranet sites.Brand partner and supplier Ethical Trade Requirements: Our Ethical Trade Requirements apply to our brand partners and suppliers, including contractors and concession partners and are part of our standard Terms and Conditions. These Ethical Trade Requirements include clauses on modern slavery, require compliance with any applicable modern slavery legislation, are aligned with the ETI Base Code and ILO Conventions, and apply across all tiers of our supply chain. These are discussed and referenced by our Buying teams in brand partner and supplier conversations when applicable.Selfridges Group Code of Ethics: Our Code of Ethics instils our group vision, purpose and values. Central to our Code of Ethics is our commitment to create a sustainable future, and respecting people is part of this. Self Assessment Questionnaire: Our Self Assessment Questionnaire is sent to brand partners and suppliers to collate information about supply chain practices to aid risk assessment. Included in this questionnaire are both social and environmental questions which incorporate an assessment of modern slavery risks.Materials Commitments: Our group-wide materials commitments are to ensure that the most environmentally impactful materials we use or sell come from certified sources by 2025. Some of the requirements as part of these certifications are in relation to fair treatment of supply chain workers.2021/22 Update: The Code of Ethics was communicated across all parts of our businesses, and we are developing further training to ensure that it continues to be embedded in our teams’ ways of working.2021/22 Update: We have updated our Self Assessment Questionnaire to ensure that the most pertinent questions are asked, we are also refining a cross-business process to enhance information sharing, investigations, and escalations where necessary. 2021/22 Update: Our businesses continue to promote low-impact, certified materials with third party brands and suppliers. These are focal to our buying and sustainability team conversations with supply chain partners.  2021/22 Update: Following the update to our Selfridges Group Ethical Trade Requirements, in which we aligned these across our businesses, we shared them with our brand partners and suppliers. We will continue the roll out during the coming year.12OnboardingTeam member right to work: We review our new team members’ right to work as part of our onboarding process. Our systems are either automated to prompt checks on a person’s right to work locally and any visas, or we have a standard process in place to ensure checks are completed regularlyContractor, concession, agency and supplier checks: We rely on our contractors, concessions, agencies and suppliers to ensure people working for them are eligible to work and also comply with our policies and procedures. This is set out in our Ethical Trade Requirements.MonitoringTeam member grievance process: We have grievance processes in place for team members to address any concerns or issues that they have.Team member proactive monitoring: We monitor key team member details via our HR system to identify and investigate any unusual patterns which might indicate an issue.Responsible managers: Managers in our business, and in our contractor and concession teams, are responsible for the safety and wellbeing of those who work in their areas.2021/22 update: Brand partner and supplier due diligence: As our risk assessment identified, our brand partners and suppliers are our area of greatest modern slavery risk. Following our Ethical Trade Requirements alignment, our businesses take the same common approach to modern slavery risk, through Our approach: Due diligence processessharing the same Self Assessment Questionnaire and using the same ratings criteria to review the criticality of issues and follow-up investigations. We conducted a five month trial of this Self Assessment Questionnaire, which was shared with over 100 partners encompassing branded goods suppliers, contractors, agencies, and third-party brands. Collecting feedback from a representative sample, we have further refined our approach. We will continue to roll this out to our supply chain in the coming year and have set ambitious targets against the number of brand partners and suppliers we want to reach. Meeting those targets forms part of the ESG measures linked to executive remuneration.   21/22 HighlightSustainable Apparel Coalition and de BijenkorfPart of de Bijenkorf’s risk-based approach is the use of industry tools with third party brands. De Bijenkorf are members of the SAC, the leading alliance of sustainable production in the apparel, footwear, and textile industry. In 2021, de Bijenkorf worked with the Higg Co., to deploy transparency tools. In this pilot, de Bijenkorf designed an onboarding and completion programme for non-SAC brand partners (with limited or no experience of the SAC’s tools), to complete the Brand and Retailer module; providing valuable insight on their sustainability activities. This was achieved through regular webinars and training sessions to ensure brands had the right level of knowledge and support to complete the tool. Furthermore, de Bijenkorf financially contributed to offset the cost of the licensing fee to access this tool for brands. 13Escalating Whistleblowing: Our Speak Up Helpline is a dedicated whistleblowing and support line. This is accessible 24 hours a day, all year, by anyone who works for or with us, including everyone working in our supply chains. It is promoted alongside other mechanisms through channels which include team member guides, on payslips and in team member communications. 27 calls were made in total to the helpline this year but none were related to modern slavery.Our approach to understanding and investigating issues within our supply chains considers both individual and industry-wide systemic risks.Investigating individual issuesWhen we become aware of individual potential issues within a brand partner’s supply chain, our businesses immediately contact the relevant brand partner or supplier, working together where issues impact more than one area of the group. This is to understand whether or not the issue has arisen in the supply of any of our own goods and services, and what steps they are taking to investigate the potential issues, to support any victims, and to remedy individual instances. Secondly, to understand the processes and controls in place to prevent reoccurrence and understand whether there is any wider risk, we also consider whether there is a risk the issue could appear elsewhere in our supply chains and take necessary steps to investigate. Lastly, we consider how any issues may impact the focus of our risk assessment and due diligence processes.Our approach: Due diligence processesYear 2019 - 2020 2020 – 20212021 - 2022Calls 75 532721/22 HighlightSelfridges and Stronger TogetherIn the UK, Selfridges partners with Stronger Together to strengthen its approach to modern slavery. During the year, 24 brand partners and suppliers were trained in Stronger Together workshops. Looking ahead, Selfridges will continue to work with Stronger Together to engage additional UK-based suppliers through the Tackling modern slavery in UK Business training programme. 14Considering risks associated with systemic issuesIn addition to investigating individual issues which arise, we also take action to understand and mitigate the presence of industry-wide systemic issues in our supply chains. Two areas continue to be in focus for us, as set out below.UK garment industryIn 2020, reports of issues within the UK garment industry continued and were brought to the fore during the COVID-19 pandemic. Issues included dangerous working conditions, low wages, and limited enforcement of labour regulations and standards. These continued to surround Leicester-based factories in fast-fashion supply chains. Last year, our UK-based Selfridges business sought reassurances from their brand partners sourcing from sites within the UK that their factory assessment processes are rigorous. Our approach: Due diligence processesForced labour in the cotton industry and the Xinjiang regionSystemic human rights abuses associated with cotton production remains a cause of concern throughout the world. Poor human rights practices persist in a number of countries and include forced labour in, but not limited to, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. A recent report on forced labour in the Xinjiang region described how ethnic minorities are exploited and forced to pick cotton. This highlighted the potential scale of the issue in China, where significant quantities of cotton are grown and produced. This is not an issue that we as a business alone can solve, but we take it seriously. We are working with our brand partners and suppliers to gain greater visibility of the origin of materials, and to understand the traceability measures they have in place, including those relating to cotton. This is aligned with our 2025 materials commitment statements which set out our future mandatory sustainable sourcing standards for key materials used in the products we sell.15Team member inductions: Every new team member completes an induction which includes an introduction to sustainability that covers our social and environmental priorities.Team member communications: The businesses have their own team member engagement approaches for sustainability which include standalone sustainability messaging, as well as sustainability being woven into business communications in line with business strategies. Buying team communications: Our Buying teams are engaged in various sustainability communications and engagement activities throughout the year and are made aware of modern slavery risks as part of our Ethical Trade Requirements.Brand partner and supplier briefings: Our Buying and Procurement teams continue to discuss our approach to sustainability and ethical trade during commercial conversations and have specific sustainability discussions with our key brand partners and suppliers where relevant.Modern slavery briefings: Some businesses have provided specific briefings on modern slavery to key groups of stakeholders to raise the level of awareness and understanding of the issue.Team member and supplier training: Some of our businesses actively encouraged our team members and suppliers in categories of higher risk to attend workshops or webinars co-delivered by Stronger Together. These are aimed to raise the awareness of the issue, highlight signs to be aware of and set out steps to take.Our approach: Training and communications21/22 HighlightSelfridges and E-learningSelfridges launched team member training on modern slavery during the last year, highlighting how modern slavery is relevant to our businesses and everyday lives, and key signs to look out for and actions to take. 594 team members have taken part in this training to date. 16Monitoring key measures helps us identify and tackle risks, evaluate whether our approach is effective, direct our future activity, and highlight potential areas of improvement. Each year we review the measures we use to help us continue to do this. We intend these measures to grow and evolve as we refine our approach.Our businesses report their headline sustainability performance as part of our monthly dashboard reporting. These sustainability dashboards include measures on team member awareness and engagement, supply chain visibility, non-compliances and brand and supplier engagement. In addition to this, sustainability risk is considered in monthly business risk reviews.Our plans for 2022/23: • Continue the roll-out of our common Ethical Trade Requirements• Further embed our group Code of Ethics into our ways of working through team member training• Expand our group Self Assessment Questionnaire to reach more brands and suppliers• Engage our team members, brand partners and suppliers in the issue of modern slavery• Maintain our cross-business collaborations and best practice sharing • Monitor risk through our businesses and risk committees and take action as necessary• Partner with external experts, organisations and forums to help refine our approachMonitoring the effectiveness of our approachIn accordance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, this document sets out SHEL Holdings Europe Limited and each of its key operating businesses’ (Selfridges Group’s) Modern Slavery Statement for the reporting year from 1 February 2021 to 31 January 2022. This Modern Slavery Statement covers SHEL Holdings Europe Limited, together with the following entities that are direct and indirect subsidiaries of SHEL Holdings Europe Limited and the key operating subsidiaries that comprise Selfridges Group: Selfridges Retail Limited, UK; Magazijn de Bijenkorf B.V., the Netherlands; Brown Thomas Arnotts Limited, Ireland; Holt Renfrew & Co., Limited, Canada.In addition to this statement, Selfridges Retail Limited, Brown Thomas Arnotts Limited have published their own Modern Slavery Statements, setting out more detail on the steps taken to prevent modern slavery from occurring with their businesses and supply chains.For all comments or queries in relation to this document, please contact us at ethics@selfridgesgroup.comTo raise any concerns please contact:Selfridges Group Speak Up Helpline:United Kingdom phone: 0808 234 7287Republic of Ireland phone: 1 800 552 072Netherlands phone: 0800 023 2214 / 0800 250 5001Canada phone: 1 855 229 9304Online: www.selfridges.ethicspoint.comUK Confidential Modern Slavery Helpline: 08000 121 700SHEL Holdings Europe Limited, 103 Wigmore Street, London W1U 1QS