Modern Slavery Statement


CJ Lang & Son Ltd (“the Group”) is committed to ensuring that slavery, servitude, forced labour and human trafficking does not occur within its business or in any part of its supply chain. The Group seeks to act ethically and with transparency in all its dealings and requires the same standards from its suppliers, contractors, and business partners.

Nature of Business

The Group is one of the largest symbol group operators in Scotland with over 300 company owned and independent stores trading under the SPAR brand and is a core member of SPAR UK. Founded in 1919 and still a family-owned business, the organisation directly employs over 1800 people across Scotland, with offices in Dundee and through a number of company-owned convenience stores within the community.

Employees

The Group respects and supports the rights of those employed by the organisation by ensuring that:

• All employees are eligible to work in the UK to safeguard against human trafficking and protect those who may be forced to work against their will;

• All employees are provided with a safe and healthy workplace;

• All employees are provided with a workplace that is free from discrimination and harassment of any kind;

• Concerns can be raised by any employee without fear or repercussion pursuant to the organisation’s Whistleblowing Policy; and

• Standards and principles as detailed in the organisation’s Corporate Ethics Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy are communicated to employees and that corruption in all forms is prohibited

Suppliers

The Group is the appointed, exclusive SPAR wholesaler for Scotland and works closely with SPAR UK in relation to the supply of goods. SPAR UK is a member of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), an organisation which also supports the Group to manage its suppliers’ performance on labour rights, as well as other matters such as health and safety, the environment and business ethics.

The Group will not work with any supplier, organisation or individual that has been found to be knowingly involved in modern slavery or corruption.

Training

The Group will ensure that all employees, contractors, and business partners are informed and understand the policies that support the organisation’s standards and values. These policies are available to suppliers of the Group upon request.

In addition, the Group will ensure that all those directly involved in procurement and supply chain management receive appropriate training in relation to the identification and mitigation of the risks in relation to slavery, servitude, forced labour and human trafficking. The Group is committed to continue to review its policies and processes to ensure the highest standards within its business and supply chain.

Board Approval

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the Group’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 30 April 2022. It was approved by the board on 10 March 2022.