SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT HT Drinks Holdings Ltd is committed to preventing acts of modern slavery and human trafficking from occurring within its business and supply chain and imposes the same high standards on its suppliers.   This statement is made in accordance with section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes HT Drinks Holdings Limited and its subsidiary’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 March 2023.  HT DRINKS HOLDINGS LTD is the parent holding company for the below trading companies within the group:  - HT Drinks Ltd - Champers (Wholesale) Ltd  - Drinksupermarket.com Ltd  - Gift Creation and Design Ltd - Valecorp Ltd  HT Drinks Ltd Founded in 1985, the company is a leading drinks and grocery wholesaler with the head office strategically placed in Park Royal.   Champers (Wholesale) Ltd London's leading same-day service drinks company with a national delivery capability, the company is the group’s flagship for on-trade business.   Drinksupermarket.com Ltd One of the UK's biggest direct-to-consumer (B2C) online drinks retailer.   Gift Creation and Design Ltd Working with all the major grocery and High Street retailers, including Tesco, Aldi and Lidl, the company is a leading gifting and design business.     HT Drinks Holdings Ltd and its subsidiary companies have a zero-tolerance attitude to any form of modern slavery.  As part of our commitment to combating modern slavery, we have produced a modern slavery policy.  All our employees benefit from a positive working environment in which their rights and freedom is fully respected and honoured. We believe in acting ethically and with integrity and transparency. As a group, we are always working with the local community and recruit around the local depots to minimise risk of human trafficking and we carry right-to work checks where a prospective employee is a non-EU resident. As part of our efforts to monitor and reduce the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring within our supply chains, we check and review our suppliers are registered for Alcohol Wholesaler Registration Scheme (AWRS), for VAT and other registrations, as applicable.   HT Drinks Holdings Ltd and its subsidiaries regularly evaluate the nature and extent of its exposure to the risk of modern slavery occurring in its supply chain.  As an organisation we are committed to ensuring we don’t support or deal with any businesses or individuals that are knowingly involved in slavery or human trafficking. We will continue to develop our procedures to ensure our supply chains are free from slavery and human trafficking. We will carry out further staff training and carry out a full supply chain review to ensure we have identified any key risks. This statement has been approved by the Board of Directors.   …………………………….. Director  Dated 01 April 2023 