Soul Foods Group (UK); Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement   Introduction: This statement has been written in accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. This is the Group’s second Modern Slavery Statement and reflects the steps we intend to take throughout the financial year 2021/2022.  The Group is committed to understanding modern slavery risks and taking all reasonably practicable steps to ensure that acts of modern slavery, human trafficking, child, and sexual exploitation do not occur in our business or supply chains.   The Company: This statement is made in respect of the operation of Soul Foods Ltd and Soul Coffee House Ltd entities, (collectively known as Soul Foods Group).   • Soul Foods Ltd: Chicken Cabins Ltd, SASA Foods Ltd, Readytrade Ltd • Soul Coffee House Ltd: Soul Coffee House (Central) Ltd, Soul Coffee House (West) Ltd, Soul Coffee House (South) Ltd, Soul Coffee House (East) Ltd, Soul Coffee House (London) Ltd  Soul Foods Group of companies is a family owned business, with an established portfolio of franchises in the UK comprising of three global brands, KFC, Starbucks, and Taco Bell.   We have 154 stores across the UK, growing annually, providing food and beverage services to local communities.   Soul Foods Group enjoys the support of major franchisors such as KFC, Taco Bell, and Starbucks, employing over 3,000 individuals at various locations across the UK.  All our UK stores are located across the North of England, East Midlands, London, and the surrounding areas.   Our Mission: To make a difference to people’s lives, their opportunities and their communities through great tasting food and coffee.   Our Vision: To build a global food and coffee business, rewarding an engaged and diverse workforce with career and life development opportunities, connecting with communities through great tasting food and coffee, and making a difference by giving back in abundance.   We are committed to promoting and maintaining the highest level of ethical standards and integrity in relation to all business activities. Soul Foods Group of companies have a firm view that the success of any business is through its people and has a strong belief in doing the right thing. As a business we ensure that we comply with all applicable wages, benefits and hour laws, and regulations, including those relating to minimum national legal standards. We have a strong sense of giving within the organisation, working tirelessly every year to help give back, with our stores raising money for good causes both globally and in the local communities where we do business. Bringing people together, inspiring change, and making a difference in people’s lives – it’s important to our culture.   Our Policies: Our Group has policies and procedures in place that support ethical practices.     These include checks and verifications in respect of migrant workers, whistleblowing policies to encourage reports from staff of unethical conduct or behaviour, and we require all potential employees to provide evidence of entitlement to work in the UK.  Our Supply Chain: Soul Foods Group utilises KFC, Taco Bell, and Starbucks accredited suppliers who abide by processes for the sourcing and management of suppliers in order to minimise risk to the brands, the environment, and the communities that our stores and supply chains impact.   Soul Foods Group’s supply chain relies on suppliers’ good ethical business practices.   All our brand suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with our brand supplier code of conduct.   We are committed to extending such processes to all our local suppliers and implementing and monitoring effective systems and controls.   This enables transparency within our business to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.   Our Commitment: As a people centred business, we will work to protect the human rights of our colleagues, customers, and communities that we work within. In the financial year 2021/2022 we will continue working in line with our existing Modern Slavery Strategy including:  • Review and, if necessary, update current policies and processes to reduce the risk of modern slavery in our business and supply chain. • Review recruitment agents and codes of conduct. • Review training for employees on  Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking. We will immediately investigate any alleged incidents or complaints of slavery and human trafficking reported to us, whether under our whistleblowing policies or otherwise. • Endeavour to work only with those who provide assurances on their working practices and commitment to combating slavery and human trafficking in their own business and supply chains.  • Publish an updated Modern Slavery Statement each financial year in order to show transparency and our continued commitment in playing our part in preventing slavery and human trafficking.   Any queries relating to this Modern Slavery Statement should be addressed to Alison Walmsley, HR Director.   This Modern Slavery Statement was approved by the board of Soul Foods Group on 27 August 2021.     Aly Janmohamed Chairman | August 2021  (This statement sets out the steps taken by Soul Foods Group of Companies which fall within the scope of section 54(2) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (Transparency in Supply Chains) Regulations 2015.) 