  Euro Food Brands Ltd, EFB Group Ltd & EFB Group Holdings Ltd Modern Slavery Statement Introduction & Company Structure The Modern Slavery Act is a significant step in tackling slavery and human trafficking in all its forms both within the UK and abroad. Euro Food Brands Ltd, EFB Group Ltd & EFB Group Holdings Ltd (‘Euro Food Brands’) are responsible businesses and we are committed to understanding the risks of modern slavery and to ensuring that there is no risk of modern slavery taking place within our own business and our supply chains. Euro Food Brands Ltd is a privately-owned company which specialises in the import, marketing, and distribution of both branded and private label food & drink products to customers in the UK and Europe.  Our products are sourced from the worldwide market. Our business within the UK consists of around 90 staff, employed in office based roles and remote sales roles.  Due to the nature of our business, we rely on an extensive global supply chain. We operate from a number of locations using carefully selected distribution partners. We source our products from around 80 different suppliers globally. The structure and roles of our workforce as a UK based office and sales team present a very low risk of slavery or forced labour within Euro Food Brands Ltd. We are committed to working with our suppliers to ensure that they are also committed to tackling this issue within their businesses. EFB Group Limited & EFB Group Holdings Limited are an intermediate and ultimate holding company which only trades through Euro Food Brands Limited. Responsibility & Policies The directors take ultimate responsibility for anti-slavery initiatives within the company, using our Senior HR Manager and Quality Systems Manager to advise on implementation and best practice. Within Euro Food Brands Ltd Euro Food Brands is committed to the practice of responsible corporate behaviour and as such has an Ethics policy that is communicated to all staff through the Employee Intranet, which includes sections on Human Rights and Worker’s Rights. Through its business practices Euro Food Brands seeks to protect and promote the human rights and basic freedoms of all its employees and agents.  Within Euro Food Brands Ltd we have the following in place:  • We recruit through known and reputable agencies. • We pay the agency fees for recruitment services. Employees never pay for work. • We pay wages directly to employee’s bank accounts. • We ensure our employees are treated well and have a grievance policy and whistle blowing policy freely available to all employees to encourage them to raise any issues.  Suppliers of Euro Food Brands Euro Food Brands expects all suppliers and partners to work towards and uphold similar ethical and moral standards.  We will investigate the ethical record of potential new suppliers before entering into any agreement. Further, Euro Food Brands reserves the right to request information from suppliers regarding the production and sources of goods supplied. Euro Food Brands Ltd is a category AB member of SEDEX with the Supplier Plus add on (number S820073876827), which is an online platform that allows companies to share and manage supply chain information regarding labour standards, health and safety, the environment and business ethics.   Euro Food Brands Ltd reserves the right to withdraw from any agreement or other arrangement with any supplier or partner who is found to have acted in contravention of the spirit or principles of our Ethics Policy. Our commitment Last financial year we: • Displayed posters in our offices to raise awareness of modern slavery amongst our staff. • Continued to incorporate modern slavery checks in our site visits and audit policy to ensure Euro Food Brands Ltd Technical team members are prepared to recognise and challenge signs of hidden labour exploitation at supplier sites.  • Continued with the collation of our supplier’s policies on modern slavery (specifically new suppliers as others were done in previous year) to ensure they are aware of this and have steps in place to tackle it. We have asked all new suppliers to sign a statement showing their commitment to the ETI principles. • Upgraded to AB membership of Sedex which allows us further visibility of our supply chains and better education on supply chain issues.  • Continued to include Modern Slavery Education into our technical induction with all new members of staff.  • Facilitated customer ethical audits of suppliers where necessary due to risk ratings and worked with these suppliers to ensure standards are met.  This financial year we will continue our commitment to this through: • Different ways (in addition to posters) of raising general awareness especially as employees are in the office less often. • Continue to keep key members of staff who visit sites updated with the latest knowledge on this subject so they are prepared to recognise signs of hidden labour exploitation at supplier sites. • Continue to collate policies for new suppliers and ask them to sign statement showing their commitment the ETI principles. • Utilise Modern Slavery training available on our new Sedex membership to upskill the technical team further. • Follow up any actions from ethical audits undertaken of our suppliers and ensure non-conformities are addressed.  This statement is for the financial year ending 30 September 2022, has been agreed by the board of Directors and will be reviewed on an annual basis.   Signed: Phil Gotch, COO  Date: 8 March 2021 