Making Choice Easy Human Resources / Health & Safety Foyle Food Group Shared Service Centre, 52 Doogary Road, Omagh Co. Tyrone, Northern Ireland, BT79 0BQ    T +44 (0) 28822 43201 E recruitment@foylefoodgroup.comW  www.foylefoodgroup.com  FOYLE FOOD GROUP Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement – 3rd January 2022 Introduction This statement is made on behalf of the Foyle Food Group’s UK / ROI operations. The Foyle Food Group is committed to understanding modern slavery risks and ensuring that no modern slavery or human trafficking exists within the organisation or supply chains. This statement covers the activities of the Foyle Food Group and relates to actions and activates during the financial year 1st January 2021 to the 31st December 2021. About us The Foyle Food Group is a family–run group of companies with a farming heritage dating back several generations. Established over 3 decades ago, we have a long-standing history of supplying quality beef to leading retailers, manufacturers, foodservice providers and butchers across the world. The Group has 9 processing facilities across the United Kingdom and Ireland, employing in excess of 1,300 directly employed employees with the ability to process in excess of 300,000 cattle per year. Now in our fourth decade, we are proud to have industry–wide recognition for the high-quality beef products we produce. More than that, we’re proud to have forged such loyal relationships at every level of our business. Our core business and focus is on slaughtering and deboning. We have worked hard over the last few years to maximise our efficiencies and reduce our costs. We have developed lean and fluid processes which have enabled us to maintain a competitive edge whist still giving our customers value for money We have learnt over the years, that it’s not simply enough to merely respond to customer’s needs. We try to anticipate these needs by offering a broader range of products. By ensuring that we always aim to do our best to be right first time and ultimately putting the steps in place to ensure our product quality is both measurable and consistent. Making Choice Easy Human Resources / Health & Safety Foyle Food Group Shared Service Centre, 52 Doogary Road, Omagh Co. Tyrone, Northern Ireland, BT79 0BQ    T +44 (0) 28822 43201 E recruitment@foylefoodgroup.comW  www.foylefoodgroup.com  The Foyle Food Group is dedicated to maintaining a fair and ethical workplace for all our staff and prohibits the use of all forms of forced labour and human trafficking. We ensure compliance with all applicable employment legislation relating to employee recruitment and terms and conditions, including obtaining right to work evidence and guaranteeing that no staff working in the UK or ROI are paid less than the National Living / Minimum wage. We provide equal opportunities for employment, training and career development regardless of age, sex, race, religion, ethnic origin or other minority groups. Where practicable, a flexible approach is adopted to assist employees to manage a successful work/life balance. We also work to achieve continual improvements in health and safety. Through regular reviews, training and auditing we strive to achieve high health and safety standards within the individual operations. Formal reporting procedures are in place at every site so the Group can monitor safety performance at a local level. Supply Chain All raw materials and packaging are purchased from approved suppliers and in accordance with our agreed specifications. A robust auditing process of the supply chain ensures that products are responsibly sourced, and any issues identified through traceability checks. Relevant Policies and Practices The Foyle Food Group operates the following policies that describe our approach to the identification of modern slavery and steps that we take to prevent slavery and human trafficking in our operations; Equal Opportunities Policy Ethical Trading Policy Bullying and Harassment Policy  Trade Union Agreements Employee Health and Wellbeing Policy Employee Training and Development Child Labour Policy Anti-Slavery / Human Trafficking Policy Whistleblowing Policy SEDEX membership Making Choice Easy Human Resources / Health & Safety Foyle Food Group Shared Service Centre, 52 Doogary Road, Omagh Co. Tyrone, Northern Ireland, BT79 0BQ    T +44 (0) 28822 43201 E recruitment@foylefoodgroup.comW  www.foylefoodgroup.com  External Auditing processes Since our last statement we have continued to work with ‘Stronger Together’ (a multi-stakeholder initiative to reduce modern slavery, by providing guidance, resources, training and a network to employers, labour providers, workers and their representatives) to support and aid the implementation of our Modern Slavery awareness within the Foyle Food Group. Key individuals within the organisation have attended Stronger Together workshops. Awareness Raising Programmes The Foyle Food Group regularly communicates its commitment to Equality, Ethical trading, Health and Wellbeing etc. at each site through ongoing communication and training. All employees are directly employed to minimise the risk of potential breaches of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. This statement is made pursuant to section 54(I) of the modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our Group slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31st December 2021. Terry Acheson CEO Foyle Food Group