H WESTONS & SONS LTD 2023-2024
 

This statement is H. Weston & Sons Ltd modern slavery and human trafficking statement relating to section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (“the Act”). 

 

We oppose slavery and human trafficking in all its forms and make this statement to set out the steps we have taken to ensure that slavery or human trafficking is not taking place in our business or in our supply chains. 

 

INTRODUCTION
 

Based in the Herefordshire village of Much Marcle, we have a long family history of premium cider-making with our roots going back to 1880. Five Weston generations have worked with like-minded colleagues in the pursuit of their passion: creating authentic ciders that people will love.

 

BUSINESS STRUCTURE
 

H Weston & Sons Ltd was established in 1880 by founder Henry Weston. Helen Thomas, the current Managing Director of Westons Cider is a fourth-generation family member (Henry Westons great-granddaughter), who since 1996 has successfully grown the business to what it is today. Currently the business employees approximately 275 employees.

 

OUR POLICIES
 

We have a number of policies in place to assist us in ensuring compliance with the Act:

Recruitment Policy
Procurement Policy - covering all procured goods, works and services and the services of delivery partners;
Supplier Reasonable Sourcing Policy
Whistleblowing Policy;
Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy;
Fraud, Theft and Suspicious Acts Policy;
Ethical Trade Policy;
 

OUR COMMITMENT 
 

Westons Cider acknowledges its responsibilities in relation to tackling modern slavery and commits to complying with the provisions in the Modern Slavery Act 2015. We understand that this requires an ongoing review of both our internal practices in relation to our teams and additionally, our supply chains.

 

Westons Cider has a zero tolerance to Modern Slavery. It will refrain from entering business and/or will discontinue any current business with any organisation found to be involved in slavery, forced or compulsory labour.

Westons Cider is required under the Modern Slavery Act to demonstrate the steps that we are taking to prevent modern slavery in our business and supply chains. This statement describes the steps we take to prevent modern slavery.

 

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR 2023/24
 

To measure the effectiveness of our commitment we sign up to the below KPIs.

Part time employees are offered the same pro rata entitlements as our full time employees.
Introduce an Employee Voice Forum, giving employees opportunity to raise concerns in a safe and controlled environment.
Delivering an internal awareness campaign throughout Westons Cider employees regarding modern slavery through training.
To audit the employment agencies that we come in contract with a minimum of an annual basis, and more frequently if needed.
Ensure that 100% employees are exposed to modern slavery awareness-raising, including how to spot the signs and how to report it.
Ensure that 100% of all inductions for temporary labour (including contractors) include modern slavery awareness.
We ensure that recruitment agencies on our preferred supplier list are reputable agencies – and require that all those on our preferred supplier list have appropriate modern slavery provisions.
We will continue to increase our safeguards in our supply chains. Initial work will focus on those suppliers to assess where the greatest potential risk.
Over the next year we will continue to seek improvements to training processes for staff and volunteers, including widening the scope of training to include modern slavery as well as child trafficking.
To ensure that our employees and agency workers work in a safe environment; where they feel comfortable to discuss any concerns they might have about colleagues’ wellbeing with their Line Manager, or a member of the HR Team, including any potential risk of human trafficking.
To carry out due diligence processes in relation to ensuring slavery and/or human trafficking does not take place within the company or its supply chains.
To ensure all employees adhere to company policies and procedures relating to modern slavery.
 

BOARD APPROVAL
 

This voluntary slavery and human trafficking statement is made in connection with section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, for the financial year ending 31 March 2023.

It was approved by The Managing Director and Board of Directors on 7th June 2023.