Henderson Foodservice Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
 

Introduction
Slavery and human trafficking (Modern Slavery) is a global and growing issue given the rapid rise of global migration. Henderson Group has a zero tolerance approach to Modern Slavery of any kind within our business and/or supply chain and all of us at Henderson Group have a responsibility to be alert to the risks of Modern Slavery, no matter how small. Our employees are expected to report their concerns and our management are expected to act upon them. We are committed to constantly reviewing, updating and improving our practices to ensure that we are tackling slavery and human trafficking.

 

About Our Business
Family-owned Henderson Group are the owners of the SPAR, EUROSPAR, VIVO, VIVOXTRA and VIVO ESSENTIALS franchises in Northern Ireland and have been distributing food and grocery-related products to the convenience retail sector for over 100 years.The Group consists of indigenous companies, each of which operates under the Henderson Group. The Group is one of the largest employers in Northern Ireland with more than 3,500 employees and a Group turnover of more than £750 million per annum.


Our Supply Chains
Our supply chains include the sourcing of materials principally related to the provision of food.

 

Our Policies and Contractual Controls
In our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy we confirm that:

We will not tolerate any form of Modern Slavery,
We are committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships,
We take seriously any allegations of Modern Slavery in our business and/ or supply chains, and
We are committed to constantly reviewing, updating and improving our practices to ensure that Modern Slavery is not taking place in our business and/or supply chains.
We also operate a Whistleblowing Policy for our employees which encourages staff to report any wrongdoing which extends to human rights violations like Modern Slavery.Due Diligence processes for slavery and human traffickingHenderson Group is a member of SEDEX and we will request all of our key suppliers to be members of SEDEX, in order for us to view their ethical data. This will enhance our ethical standards within our supply chain.
 

Modern Slavery within our Supply Chains
Our focus to date has related to Modern Slavery within our top 200 suppliers, who currently account for 90% of our total annual purchases.

SEDEX are able to map our supply chains assessing industry sector and geographical risk, this assessment will cover the entirety of our business, which will include HR, IT and also our product supply chains. By having this assessment conducted we will understand where the biggest risks lie and where we can steer our actions to have a positive impact. This will give us more due diligence, better visibility and helps educate and train our suppliers in this regard.

 

Modern Slavery Training
We are using an expert third party consultancy, SEDEX, to train key staff in Modern Slavery and human rights and then use that consultancy to support the business in mapping risk assessment and developing mitigation responses.

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the Henderson Group slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ended 31st December 2017, covering the following subsidiary organisations:

John Henderson (Holdings) Limited
Henderson Wholesale Limited
Henderson Retail Limited
Henderson Foodservice Limited
The Streat Franchising Limited
Henderson Group Property Limited
John Henderson (Mallusk) Limited
Henderson Technology Limited

All Directors and relevant members of staff have been briefed on this policy and its implications.

 

 

Martin Agnew, Joint Managing Director                         Geoffrey Agnew, Joint Managing Director

Henderson Group                                                                   Henderson Group      