     SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT 23rd March 2023  This statement is made by Surrey County Cricket Club on behalf of itself and its subsidiary undertakings (together the “Group”): • Kennington Oval Limited • Oval Events Holdings Limited • Oval Events Limited • Oval Hotel Holdings Ltd • Oval Whitehouse Holdings Ltd  About Surrey County Cricket Club  Surrey County Cricket Club was formed in 1845 and is one of the most historic sports clubs in the United Kingdom. We first won the County Championship in 1890 and have since lifted the most prestigious trophy in English domestic cricket twenty times, most recently in 2018. Surrey County Cricket Club is very special as it is owned by its Members, with the governance of the Club set out in the Club Rules. The Club’s Members elect a General Committee to represent their interests in the management of the Club’s activities, responsibility for which is fully delegated to the Board. Those wishing to learn more about Surrey County Cricket Club can do so on our website: https://www.kiaoval.com/about-surrey-cricket/ Surrey County Cricket Club is dedicated to conducting its business consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. We are committed not only to our cricket team but to our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, community representatives and other business contacts to be honest, fair and forthright in all of our business activities.  In accordance with this ethical approach, we do not tolerate modern slavery or human trafficking in our organisation or in our supply chain. As a Member’s Club, maximising profit is not our primary objective, and we believe that modern slavery, a brutal way of producing goods and services at lower costs, is immoral, and always will be, wrong.  Our business  Our revenue streams are, at a basic level, divided between ‘on-field activities’ - the cricket - and ‘off-field activites’, which, for example, incorporates our hospitality, conference & events, and sponsorship.   • The Club is based at the Kia Oval in Kennington, South London. One of the world’s iconic cricket venues, it currently seats over 27,000 spectators and is the second largest cricket stadium in the UK. • Within the commercial revenue sector, our key revenue streams are: sponsorship; retail; hospitality on major matchdays;  conferences and events at the Kia Oval. • The England & Wales Cricket Board (ECB) supports the game of cricket financially through staging fees, performance-related payments and International central contracts to counties who provide England players.  Our supply chains  Our supply chains include third party suppliers of products/services required for our Commercial and Matchday operations.  These include, amongst others, suppliers of the following products/services:  • Cricket operations • Audio-visual equipment/service • Broadcasting (including production and editing) services • Catering products and services • Consultancy services • Couriers • Education and training services • Entertainment • Financial services • Food & beverages • Insurance services • IT equipment/software/hardware • Kit and equipment • Maintenance services • Marketing/advertising/design services • Medical Treatment/Supplies • Merchandise • Photography • Pitches-related products and services • Professional services • Property management services • Recruitment services • Security services • Travel & accommodation services • Utilities • Supplies for our offices and other sundries  The Club also has a joint venture with Compass Group, ‘Oval Events Holdings Ltd’, whose principal activity is to deliver hospitality and catering services at our cricket matches and to our Conference and Events business. A significant number of people based at the Kia Oval are employed through OEHL by Compass Group UK. Compass Group and their supply chain are aligned to our values and commitments regarding Modern Slavery law.  Policies on slavery and human trafficking  We have appropriate policies in place that underpin our commitment to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business. Our policy on modern slavery and human trafficking (Policy) reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that we comply with our legal and ethical obligations, and that all those under our control comply with it. We also have the following policies and teams in place relevant to modern slavery, which we continuously review and update:  Fair Wage We oppose Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking in all its forms. We do not tolerate modern slavery or human trafficking in our organisation or in our supply chain. We comply with all applicable labour laws relating to working terms and conditions, including pay, and we place great emphasis on the fair and equal treatment of all our staff.  All our staff (including agency workers) are paid above the London Living Wage.  Culture & Values Board We have, as of March 2022, established a Culture & Values Board, with appointed members from a cross-section of our governance structure, and delegated authority from the Board of the Club. This Board is responsible for the Club’s work on Equality, Diversity & Inclusion, Sustainability and ESG, and across the Club the Board ensures that the entire Club is driving towards common aims on these matters. Chaired by Ebony Rainford-Brent MBE, the remit of the Culture & Values Board includes our commitment with modern slavery laws and to ethical practices, and follows up this commitment with actions as well as words.  Whistle-blower processes We have in place robust whistle-blower processes where staff who have concerns about any breach of ethical standards may report their concerns on an anonymous basis. Our whistleblowing policy is available to download from the Club’s intranet.  Our Safeguarding Team We have an established Safeguarding Team that works across the whole of the Club. We are committed to ensuring that all children, young people and adults at risk who take part in cricket have a safe, positive and fun and inclusive experience whatever their level of involvement. Everyone who is involved in cricket has a shared responsibility to support this by promoting the welfare of all children, young people and adults at risk and individually and collectively, we are signed up to the ECB Safe Hands Policy and Safeguarding Strategy 2022-2024 and are committed to deliver the ECB Safeguarding Standards as set out in the ECB's County Partnership Agreement with Surrey. We recognise our collective and individual safeguarding responsibilities and accountabilities. We commit to: • Implementing preventative safeguarding measures and creating safe and enjoyable cricket settings. • Having clear, simple process in place for reporting concerns. • Ensuring safeguarding concerns regarding children and adults at risk are managed appropriately and thoroughly in conjunction with the ECB, Statutory agencies and other organisations as appropriate.  This commitment is made by our County Board Trustees, the Foundation, Surrey County Cricket Club's Management Board and CEO to show our commitment to delivering the Safeguarding Standards for Cricket, set out by the ECB through the Safe Hands Policy. Our Safeguarding Lead is Heidi Langrish who can be contacted on 07773394218 and our safeguarding policies are available upon request by emailing our County Safeguarding Officer on cso@surreycricket.com.  Recruitment At Surrey County Cricket Club, we are committed to safeguarding and protecting the children, young people and adults at risk that we work with. As such, all posts are subject to a process of vetting, including the disclosure of criminal records if required and the seeking of references. We ensure that we have a range of policies and procedures in place which promote safeguarding and safer working practice across our organisation. We recognise that modern slavery and human trafficking is a potential risk when recruiting our workforce. Our People team engage and ensure that we are transparent in our recruitment processes, follow the club’s recruitment policy and promote our whistleblowing policy. This enables our workforce to raise any concerns, whether that be in relation to the treatment of colleagues or in relation to practices within the club or supply chain, without fear of reprisal.  Our robust recruitment policy is reviewed annually, ensuring that eligibility to work in the UK checks, and other background checks, are conducted for all colleagues joining the club. In particular, our recruiting teams and hiring managers are all familiar with the ‘Safer Recruitment’ guidance, which is reviewed and reissued on an annual basis, and additional awareness training is delivered periodically.   Supplier due diligence processes  In furtherance of our commitment to taking a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking, we take the following pro-active steps with respect to our supply chains:  1. We require all of our suppliers to make positive written affirmations that: (i) they do not; and (ii) their direct supply chain does not, endorse, enable or facilitate human trafficking or slavery within their business, and we have built this requirement into our new supplier process.  All of our suppliers are informed of the fact that we as a business operate a zero tolerance to human trafficking and/or slavery. We expect all those in our supply chain to comply with our values. Failure by an existing supplier to provide the positive affirmations described above will lead to an investigation and may result in that supplier’s contract being terminated.  Failure by a potential new supplier to provide requested positive affirmations may disqualify them from becoming a supplier to us.  2. Our standard terms and conditions for suppliers include an express obligation that they comply with applicable anti-slavery and anti-human trafficking legislation.   This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our Group's modern slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 January 2023. Signed on the Board’s behalf for and on behalf of Surrey County Cricket Club Limited and its Group companies as defined above.  Approved by the Surrey Board on 23rd March 2023   CEO, Surrey County Cricket Club 