1       Message from Ashley Hicks, Managing Director
 

This is Kettle Foods Ltd’s Modern Slavery Statement covering the period 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022 published in accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.  It sets out the steps we have taken as a business to combat modern slavery and human trafficking, measuring our progress against identifiable KPI’s.  We are committed to improvement and will continue to develop our strategies to tackle this serious issue and prevent slavery or trafficking from occurring in our operations and supply chains.

It has been another challenging year in the food manufacturing sector with the impacts of the pandemic still being felt as well as severe difficulties in the supply of raw materials compounded by the conflict in Ukraine.  Slavery and human trafficking are global issues with conflicts around the world increasing the risk that people are displaced and forced into desperate situations with the potential for exploitation.

This year Kettle Foods Ltd has reinforced its commitment to eradicating modern slavery and human trafficking from its business and its dealings with suppliers including (but not limited to) the following actions:

ensuring tier 1 suppliers are SEDEX approved;
only contracting with potato suppliers that are either Red Tractor or Global Gap approved;
ensuring potato suppliers are members of the Assured Produce Scheme;
ensuring relevant contracts contain a modern slavery clause; and
our Modern Slavery Policy has been updated.
However, we recognise there is always room from improvement and we have set out in this statement some of the projects that will be undertaken in the forthcoming financial year.  We will continue to measure our success against KPI’s, implement any advice or recommendations received and seek out further improvements.  Some of the new measures planned are:

a full SEDEX audit will be conducted;
evaluation of current onboarding process and implement any changes required;
roll out modern slavery refresher training to all employees;
identify areas of greatest risk and the members of the Modern Slavery Steering Committee will devise an appropriate response; and
ensure our suppliers are complying with our Modern Slavery Policy.
Our commitment is clear, we will treat people within our business and supply chains with respect and fairness.  As a business we adopt the conventions of the International Labour Organization and its internationally recognised code of labour practice as set out in paragraph 6.4 of this statement.

Despite the progress we have made, we cannot rest on our laurels.  It is my clear intention that this issue is given the attention it requires so that we can deliver sustainable solutions by working with our supply chain so that together we can build on the solid foundations we have laid.

 



2       Introduction
 

Kettle Foods Ltd is opposed to modern slavery at any level and recognises the responsibility that we share with our suppliers to tackle hidden labour exploitation.

We are committed to understanding modern slavery and human trafficking risks and ensuring that such activities are not taking place in our supply chain or any part of our business.  We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and have taken steps to ensure a high degree of ethics is incorporated into our commercial dealings including all business relationships and supply chains.  As a result, we expect and maintain the highest standards from our entire staff, contractors, suppliers and anyone with whom we do business.

One of the key principles of our company ethics is to treat everyone fairly, with dignity and respect.   We are committed to continuous improvement in our practices to combat slavery and human trafficking.

This statement is made pursuant to Modern Slavery Act 2015 by Kettle Foods Ltd (“Kettle Foods” “we” “our” “us”). It outlines the measures Kettle Foods has taken to access and reduce the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring in our business or supply chains in the financial year 1st April 2021 to 31st March 2022.  It also outlines our commitments to continue to reduce risk in the Kettle Foods financial year commencing 1st April 2022.

 

3       Kettle Foods Mission Statement
 

Kettle Foods is committed to continuously improving its practices to identify and eliminate any slavery and human trafficking in its business and supply chains whilst always acting ethically and with integrity in all its business relationships.

Each of Kettle Foods’ departments adopt this mission statement when dealing with its suppliers in addition to the following departmental commitments thus ensuring that the issue of modern slavery is uppermost in the minds of its employees when forming new business relationships and making sure high standards are maintained in its business connections:

HR

To support the company’s Modern Slavery Statement and the eradication of modern slavery and human trafficking within its supply chains and ensuring that our employees, future employees and agency workers are treated fairly with dignity and respect.

 

Procurement & Operations

To support delivery of the company objectives by providing a supply chain that minimises risk and total cost to the business. To provide a supply base that will help the business maintain competitive advantage through technical competence, efficiency, agility and quality of goods or services.

Technical

To help protect the integrity of our business, our brands and our products via robust and detailed technical supply chain assurance. To maintain our business commitment to always act ethically and with integrity whilst also ensuring that everyone within our supply chains takes the same approach.

Agriculture

To ensure an aligned, invested and engaged supply chain with our agricultural supply partners which manages and maintains the highest standards within its supply base.

 

4       Organisation’s structure
 

Kettle Foods is a private limited company registered in England and Wales; company number 2238320.

During the period covered by this statement Kettle Foods was owned by Valeo Foods.  Kettle Foods is a UK snack manufacturer supplying snack food to several countries and employing on average 420 people in the UK.

Founded in 1988 and with potatoes being one of our key raw materials we chose Norfolk as our home in order to be as close as possible to many of our potato growers.

Having expanded our snack portfolio to include Vegetable Chips, Tortilla Chips, Bread Bites, Popcorn and Rice Cakes, we now have in excess of 590active suppliers excluding agriculture.  This figure includes both direct and indirect suppliers.  Kettle Foods has 12 direct agriculture suppliers.

 

5       Our Supply Chains
 

Kettle Foods undertakes the manufacture of various snacks foods as set out below:-

5.1     Potato Chips
 

All of our potatoes are sourced from farms in the UK and close to the Kettle Foods factory in Norwich where supply permits.  Kettle Foods’ Head of Agriculture is responsible for managing the supply chain and part of that role is to ensure that our potato suppliers maintain high ethical and environmentally sustainable practices.  We only contract with potato suppliers who maintain high standards across all their practices.  As testament to this, each supplier is contractually obliged to be a member of The Assured Produce Scheme and shall have passed its annual audit with 100% compliance. Our supply base and its suppliers are compelled to use seasonal labour each year to manage the seasonal nature of the industry.  This labour force will be sourced from recognised and approved agencies. The agricultural suppliers are audited to the satisfaction of the Red Tractor or Global Gap Audits – this will be internally audited on an annual basis by Kettle Foods to ensure compliance. SEDEX Accreditation is the preferred status of Kettle Foods agricultural suppliers.

The Kettle Foods Potato Contract precedent has been amended to include a clause dedicated to modern slavery ensuring its suppliers comply with the law including but not limited to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 as well as other contractual obligations regarding combating modern slavery by requiring each potato supplier to:

Adhere to Kettle Foods Anti-Slavery Policy;
Complete all questionnaires relating to modern slavery raised by Kettle Foods;
Confirm neither it nor any of its employees (or other individuals associated with it) have been convicted of an offence involving modern slavery or human trafficking or have been the subject of an investigation, inquiry or enforcement proceedings regarding any offence connected with modern slavery or human trafficking;
Implement due diligence procedures of its own suppliers and participants in its supply chains;
Undertake not to purchase any resource, raw materials or products which have been sourced from producers/manufacturers using forced labour in their operations or practices;
Notify Kettle Foods as soon as it becomes aware of any breach (or potential breach) of Kettle Foods’ Anti-Slavery Policy, actual or suspected slavery or human tracking in a supply chain connected with the Potato Contract;
Maintain a complete set of records to trace the supply chain of all goods and services provided to Kettle Foods;
Implement annual supplier and subcontractor audits to monitor compliance with Kettle Foods’ Anti-Slavery Policy, the first of which shall be completed by the first anniversary of the Potato Contract; and
Implement a system of training for its employees, suppliers and subcontractors to ensure compliance with Kettle Foods’ Anti-Slavery Policy and maintain a record of all training offered and completed, made available to Kettle Foods on request.
 

All raw materials required to produce the potato chips including seasonings, film, cardboard and oil are sourced direct by our procurement team who ensure that due diligence is carried out before orders are placed.  Kettle Foods has long standing relationships with the majority of our suppliers who maintain high standards and are as equally committed to ensuring that modern slavery is eradicated. As contracts between Kettle Foods and such suppliers are updated, renewed or new suppliers are engaged, Kettle Foods shall ensure that modern slavery is adequately addressed as part of the supplier’s contractual obligations.

5.2     Vegetable Chips
 

Our Vegetable Chips are entirely sourced from our co-manufacturing partner within the EU, Yellow Chips B.V. (a company owned by the same parent company as Kettle Foods) and are supplied to either our Norfolk warehouse or direct to the customer.  We maintain our high levels of ethical and environmental sustainability by working in close collaboration with our co-manufacturer.

As part of our responsible supply chain governance we ensure that raw materials such as root vegetables are sourced from reputable sources who undergo periodic audits by our co-manufacturer.

5.3     Tortilla Chips
 

Our Tortilla Chips are made at our site in Gatehead under Kettle Foods’ control.  The same ethical and environmental sustainability practices are applied to the Gateshead facility as seen throughout Kettle Foods’ other sites.

The Masa flour is sourced from within the EU and all suppliers are SEDEX registered and audited.  All other raw materials are sourced in a responsible and ethical manner taking into account our obligations under the Modern Slavery Legislation.

 

5.4     Popcorn
 

During the period covered by this Statement, our popcorn brands were manufactured under Kettle Foods’ control at our Wednesbury facility in the West Midlands of the UK. The Wednesbury facility was managed under the same high ethical and environmental sustainability practices as our Norwich facility.

The popcorn kernels are all sourced from a sole supplier within the EU who is SEDEX registered and audited, and who is working with selected farms to develop a more sustainable and ethically aware process of producing popcorn kernels.

5.5     Rice Cakes
 

From April to October 2021, our Rice Cakes are entirely sourced from a co-manufacturing partner within the EU before being supplied to either our Norfolk warehouse or direct to the customer. We maintain our high levels of ethical and environmental sustainability by working in close collaboration with this co-manufacturer. As part of our responsible supply chain governance we ensure that raw materials such as rice and chocolate are sourced from reputable sources who undergo periodic audits by the co-manufacturer.

Since October 2021, rice cakes are now manufactured at our facility at Gateshead and conform to all ethical and sustainability practices as seen across the company in relation to its other products.

At the date of this statement, Kettle Foods has no issues with any of its suppliers or other bodies representing workers that should be disclosed in the context of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.

 

6       Our policies on slavery and human trafficking
 

Kettle Foods has several policies and/or procedures in place to help it combat modern slavery:

6.1     Anti-Slavery Policy
 

As contracts between Kettle Foods and its suppliers are updated, renewed or new suppliers are engaged, we shall ensure that modern slavery is addressed as part of the supplier’s contractual obligations. All new contracts issued will contain a clause whereby such suppliers are required to comply with our Anti-Slavery Policy as part of the contract. All suppliers are required to comply with our Anti-Slavery Policy as part of their contract. Our Anti-Slavery Policy sets out the minimum standards for working conditions that Kettle Foods expects its suppliers to adhere to in the production of raw materials required to make our products.

The Policy is subject to ongoing review and an updated version was made available during the period covered by this statement in February 2022. Some of the principles included in the Policy are:

Suppliers shall comply with all applicable local legal and regulatory requirements of the country where the factory is located;
Suppliers shall put in place appropriate due diligence procedures;
Suppliers shall maintain records and implement audits;
Suppliers shall not to purchase a resource or raw materials from producers using forced labour in their operations; and
Suppliers shall notify Kettle Foods of any actual or suspected modern slavery or human trafficking in its supply chains.
Kettle Foods will not tolerate modern slavery, forced labour or human trafficking within our business dealings or supply chains. Where any non-compliance issue is identified, we expect and require our suppliers to address it.  If this does not occur within a reasonable timeframe, we reserve the right to terminate our relationship with the supplier/third party in question.

6.2     Code of Conduct Policy (Employees)
 

This policy sets out Kettle Foods’ internal standards, expectations and accountability.

It incorporates an understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking within our business and supply chains.

The Code of Conduct is available to employees via our intranet and any updates are communicated to employees as appropriate. Employees who breach our Code of Conduct and any related policies may be subject to disciplinary proceedings.

6.3     Whistleblowing Policy
 

The Whistleblowing Policy allows employees a route for anonymous reporting of any concerns that they have in relation to a number of issues and it can be used to report suspected incidents of modern slavery.  The Policy is reviewed and updated as necessary and then communicated to employees.  The main options for reporting are:

Line management;
Contact the external whistleblowing provider SeeHearSpeakUp via email, telephone or online, details of which are provided to employees through internal communications.
The Policy also includes our zero tolerance of retaliation.

 

6.4     Hidden Labour and Exploitation Policy
 

The Hidden Labour and Exploitation Policy confirms that Kettle Foods is an active member of SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange).  As part of its membership, Kettle Foods is required to undertake regular, semi-announced audits based on the ETI (Ethical Trade Initiative) Base Code which is founded on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation and its internationally recognised code of labour practice covering 9 provisions:

Employment is freely chosen;
Freedom of association;
Working conditions are safe and hygienic;
Child labour shall not be used;
Living wages are paid;
Working hours are not excessive;
No discrimination is practiced;
Regular employment is provided; and
No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed.
 

The Procurement, Agriculture, HR and Technical teams each provide a copy of their departmental policies and procedures and any updates to the legal department to hold on a central register.

6.5     Governance
 

Responsibility for the preparation of our Modern Slavery Statement sits with our legal team and is approved by our board of directors. The following departments are responsible for carrying out the implementation of policies, codes and procedures: Legal, Procurement, Technical, Operations, Agriculture & HR.

 

7       Due diligence processes for slavery and human trafficking
 

As set out in section 5.4, Kettle Foods is an active member of SEDEX a not for profit membership organisation that offers members a simple and effective way of managing ethical and responsible practices in supply chains.

 

Our direct supply chains include the sourcing of raw materials related to the manufacture of our products, as well as finished goods from our co-manufacturing partners.  These supply chains stretch across Europe and the UK.

 

To ensure that Modern Slavery is not present in these supply chains, we have communicated our commitment to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and expressed a requirement that our suppliers and any new supplier that we contract with make the same commitment.

 

To this end, we have investigated how these direct suppliers are tackling the challenge and have carried out risk assessments to satisfy ourselves that their actions are sufficient; should we identify a risk then we will carry out follow up audits and education for the supplier.  This will be an ongoing programme as we expand our reach into our extended supply chains.

 

Risk assessment is currently managed via a questionnaire ( to suppliers with a thorough investigation of responses or procedures conducted where necessary.  All Kettle Foods’ suppliers are located within the UK or European Union.

 

As set out in section 4.1, all Kettle Foods’ agricultural suppliers are required to adhere to contractual obligations regarding modern slavery.  In this way, Kettle Foods ensures that its farmers/agricultural suppliers are aligned in their joint efforts to eradicate modern slavery in this aspect of the business.

 

All of Kettle Foods’ seasoning houses who supply the blended seasonings that are used to give the flavours to our snack products are SEDEX approved.

 

Kettle Foods imposes contractual obligations regarding Modern Slavery on its Suppliers and operates an ongoing programme of ensuring that such provisions are incorporated into the wording of its contracts starting with those that pose the highest risk, including but not limited to the following:

 

In performing its contractual obligations, each Supplier shall (and ensure that each of its subcontractors shall) comply with:
All applicable laws, regulations (& codes) from time to time in force including but not limited to the Modern Slavery Act 2015;
Kettle Foods’ Anti-Slavery Policy.
 

7.1     Procurement Process

Our procurement team ensure, through the governance of the procurement process, that efficient, accountable, transparent and ethical practices are applied to acquire the materials and products that our business requires.  Due diligence is completed before engaging with a supplier which may include a site visit and auditing of working conditions.

Governance of the procurement process includes:

Initial supplier self-assessment of ethical and environmental aspects;
SEDEX membership checks (see below);
Risk assessment and follow up audits if necessary;
Compliance with the Kettle Foods’ policies on Bribery & Corruption and Modern Slavery;
Financial review; and
Annual cross-functional review of supply chain risk.
Our existing first tier suppliers are subject to an annual review of supply chain risk in terms of ethical, environmental, sustainability and supply.  This enables us to monitor changes and highlight any areas of concern for further investigation and follow up with the individual supplier.

As our portfolio of raw materials and co-manufacturing changes, we endeavour to only source from countries that have a low ethical and sustainability risk, as such our current first tier supply chains stretch across Europe, and include Italy, France, Netherlands, Denmark, Germany, Slovenia and Czech Republic.

 

7.2     Risk Assessment and Management
 

The following groups of workers have been identified as vulnerable to the risks of modern slavery and Kettle Foods’ Human Resources (HR) Team is trained to be mindful of this when dealing with workers who fall into one of these categories:-

 

Migrant workers;
Minority groups; and
Contract, agency and temporary workers.
 

In addition to the above, the following have been identified as potential indicators of modern slavery and our HR team is trained to be aware of these and act as appropriate:-

 

Someone who does not have their own passport, ID or travel documents;
Someone who always allows others to speak for them or talks as though being instructed or coached by someone else;
Someone who may be withdrawn or appear frightened and may have injuries;
A person who has limited social interaction and may always be dropped off and collected from work (they may not be able to contact their friends and family easily);
A person with very few possessions or who lives in a very poorly maintained, overcrowded place (and is often overcharged for this);
A person who has little control over their finances or who has no access to a bank account
Recruitment fees and labour agents;
Cash in hand payments;
No unions; and/or
No access to grievance mechanisms.
 

This is not an exhaustive list and other factors may also be considered relevant, but the key consideration is awareness.  The above is not conclusive evidence of modern slavery but should be taken as warning signs. If a concern is raised to our HR team, the matter would be immediately referred to Kettle Foods’ HR Director.  Depending on the severity of the issue and warning signs, the HR Director may contact the police in the first instance.

 

In consideration of the indicators above, Kettle Foods has several pre-emptive measures in place including:

 

We do not accept any communication through a third party on behalf of an employee;
We do not pay an employee’s salary into a third-party bank account;
We will not raise a cheque in another person’s name even if requested by the employee;
We will not process any application for employment or issue a contract of employment unless the employee has an address;
We do not prevent membership of a union or representative body; and
We have in place easily accessible grievance procedures available to all employee and workers.
 

 

7.3     Supplier relationships
 

Kettle Foods’ Head of Procurement and its Head of Agriculture are responsible for supplier relationships. If there are concerns over performance, these individuals will decide whether to continue to do business with the relevant supplier and take any further appropriate action which may include (but is not limited to) the following:

 

Reporting concerns to the appropriate authorities;
More frequent audits; and
Termination of the supplier relationship.
 

7.4     Audit Programme
 

Audits are conducted by Kettle Foods’ Technical Team. Also, our HR team conducts regular audits of our recruitment agencies where temporary staff are supplied to our 3 sites in the UK which includes a verification that the agency provider has developed and implemented a “tracking modern slavery policy” detailing the processes it will take to prevent forced labour.

 

As part of our SEDEX membership, and our conditions of supply with a number of our key customers, we are required to undertake regular semi-announced SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA).

 

All suppliers are required to complete the Kettle Foods Supplier Questionnaire and Risk Assessment every 12 or 18 months depending on risk.  If a supplier is not SEDEX registered such supplier will automatically be considered high risk and must provide documentation to Kettle Foods to demonstrate it has conducted due diligence with its suppliers.

 

8       Key Performance Indicators
 

To monitor the effectiveness of the steps that we have taken to combat modern slavery and human trafficking in our business and its supply chains, we use the following key performance indicators (“KPI’s”) for each financial year:

 

No.	KPI	Period covered	Percentage achieved or narrative on compliance
1	All potato suppliers must be audited annually by Red Tractor or Global Gap, such results internally audited by Kettle Foods.	1 April 2021 to  31 March 2022	100% of all suppliers audited and compliance confirmed
2	Kettle Foods Potato Contract contains a Modern Slavery clause	1 April 2021 to  31 March 2022	100% of all suppliers agreed to such a clause unamended
3	Risk assessments of tier 1 suppliers	1 April 2021 to  31 March 2022	100% achieved
4	Modern Slavery Policy	1 April 2021 to  31 March 2022	Achieved, policy updated February 2022
5	All Suppliers excluding agriculture must be SEDEX registered	1 April 2021 to  31 March 2022	100% achieved
6	Due diligence is completed before engaging a new supplier	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	100% achieved
7	Audit of HR agencies to ensure each has developed & implemented a tracking modern slavery policy	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	100% audits achieved
8	Regular semi-announced SEDEX members ethical trade audits (SMETA)	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	0% audits achieved due to Covid-19 restrictions
9	All suppliers complete a Kettle Foods questionnaire & risk assessment every 12 to 18 months	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	100% questionnaires and assessments completed
10	All employees receive modern slavery training during induction	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	100% compliance
11	Each Modern Slavery Statement communicated to all employees via intranet	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	100% achieved
12	Continue to review our modern slavery contract clause	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	Confirmed, such clauses are regularly reviewed by the legal dept
13	Modern Slavery Steering Committee meets quarterly to consider how best to assess risk, carry out due diligence and review KPI’s	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	Steering Committee met 3 times during the relevant period
14	Establish which suppliers are considered to be high risk and ensure our zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery is communicated and require such suppliers to confirm adherence to our Modern Slavery Policy	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	0 suppliers identified as high risk
15	The procurement, Technical & HR departments conduct an annual review of their departmental policies and procedures.	1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022	100% completed
 

 

 

There is still more work to do and to reflect our commitment to attaining the best possible results, the KPI’s numbered [enter numbers where 100% hasn’t been achieved] will be further worked on during the next financial year together with the KPI’s set out in section 10 below.

 

9       Training 
 

Kettle Foods conducts training and assessment as part of the induction into the organisation for all new employees via e-learning with a test to demonstrate understanding of the concepts taken at the conclusion of the session with employees expected to gain 80% and above.

 

10   Going Forward
 

Kettle Foods shall continue its commitment to ensuring that modern slavery and human trafficking do not take place in our supply chains.  We will continue to work with our suppliers to identify and tackle hidden labour exploitation. However, we recognise that there is still much to do.  During the next financial year we will:

 

No.	KPI	How KPI will be measured
1	Ensure that our suppliers are working in compliance with our Modern Slavery Policy;
 

Percentage of suppliers working in compliance with our Modern Slavery Policy
2	Evaluate our current due diligence and onboarding process including its effectiveness to ensure it remains fit for purpose. Implementing any changes if required;
 

Review conducted and changes implemented if required
3	Roll out annual Modern Slavery refresher training to all employees to ensure that identifying any risk of modern slavery is at the forefront of mind when dealing with the supply chain or colleagues/individuals that may be vulnerable;
 

Percentage of employees who undergo refresher training
4	A full on-site SEDEX audit will be conducted in the next financial year.  During the Covid-19 pandemic such audits took place remotely, we therefore welcome the opportunity to engage with the full process and will act on any recommendation and rectify any non-conformances;
 

Percentage of recommendations implemented and non-conformances rectified following the SEDEX audit
5	All heads of department will ensure all their staff make a copy of the company’s Modern Slavery Policy available to all suppliers;
 

Percentage of suppliers who have received a copy of the Modern Slavery Policy
6	We will identify areas of the supply chain that are at greatest risk to modern slavery abuses and the Steering Committee shall devise an appropriate response;
 

Number of areas identified with a corresponding recommendation from the Steering Committee
7	All heads of department will ensure that their employees are reminded of the relevant departmental mission statement and ensure compliance with its content;	Number of employees reminded about their department’s mission statement and how each department ensures compliance with it
8	All departments to review its policies and procedures, updating where necessary, providing copies to the Legal Department in order to maintain the central record
 

Percentage of policies and procedures reviewed and updated (if required) and thereafter provided to the legal department
9	Our Modern Slavery Policy will be included in the Risk Assessment of all new supplier and such suppliers will be asked to agree to comply with its provisions.	Percentage of new suppliers provided with a copy of our Modern Slavery Policy as part of the Risk Assessment process
 

 

11   Finding Help
 

If you or someone you know is being or has been exploited or you are unsure if someone needs help, assistance and advice is available:

for life-threatening emergencies, call 999, or for non-emergencies, call 101 for the police;
Modern Slavery Helplinecan be called on 08000 121 700 or contacted via an online form;
Victim Supportcan be called on 0808 16 89 111 or contacted via an online form;
Crimestopperscan be called on 0800 555 111 or contacted via an online form;
Migrant Helpcan be called on 0808 8010 503;
The Salvation Armyhave a 24/7 confidential referral helpline, which can be called on 0800 808 3733.
 

12   Publication
 

Kettle Foods’ Modern Slavery Statements (current and previous Statements) are published on:

all Kettle Foods’ websites at https://kettlechips.co.uk/, https://kettlefoods.co.uk/, https://kettlechips.eu/, https://metcalfessnacks.com/, https://manomasa.co.uk/ & https://cornpoppers.co.uk/;
TISC (Transparency In Supply Chains) – open platform reporting tool which meets the requirements of section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 at https://tiscreport.org/; and
The UK government’s Modern Statement Registry at: https://modern-slavery-statement-registry.service.gov.uk/
 

 

13   Conclusion
 

Kettle Foods is constantly striving for improvement to tackle modern slavery head on. During the period 1st April 2021 to 31st March 2022, Kettle Foods continued to work to increase awareness of risks and reporting channels.  We will continue to develop our commitment to combat modern slavery and will update our company policies, contracts and employee training as appropriate.

 

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31st March 2022. It was adopted by the board on 27 September 2022.