 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2023 Kiril Mischeff Ltd has offices in Nottinghamshire (main office), Buckinghamshire and the registered office is in London.  A manufacturing operation for chilled prepared vegetables is based in Lincolnshire. Kiril Mischeff group employees around 100 people in various roles including sales, logistics, finance, quality assurance and technical.  The group has a turnover of approximately £180 million. As a responsible company, the Kiril Mischeff Group is committed to Ethical, Social and Environmental principles. We are committed to acting ethically, with integrity in our business dealings and relationships, implementing and enforcing systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place in our own business or in our supply chains.  We work with our suppliers to ensure that decent, safe and legal working conditions are provided for all workers involved in the supply chain of products produced for Kiril Mischeff, including all parts of our own business.  Kiril Mischeff Ltd is an A member of Sedex.  We work with suppliers who are committed to ethical trading, the majority of our suppliers are members of SEDEX or have SMETA / BSCI audits. Where suppliers are not members of SEDEX they are actively encouraged to join SEDEX. If SEDEX isn’t currently an option for the supplier we will ask this very small number of suppliers to complete our internal Ethical Audit Questionnaire. This is based on the E.T.I Base Code and the Modern Slavery Act 2015, and includes reference to Forced and Bonded Labour, Human Trafficking and Exploitation.   A member of Kiril Mischeff attended a “Stronger Together” workshop, we receive regular updates and where appropriate we share with our suppliers. Copies of this policy are displayed on the notice boards at all parts of our own businesses. A member of the technical team watched the Tackling modern slavery sharing learnings from Australian and UK businesses video on the Stronger Together website.  Signed on behalf of the directors  10th March 2023 