Our updated Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2021 outlines our current approach and plans for the year ahead to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in both our business and supply chains.

As a family-owned and run company we genuinely care for the safety, health, and welfare of everyone who contributes to our business and communities including those working in our supply chain.

The Company has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and is committed to acting ethically and with integrity and transparency in all its business dealings and relationships and to follow effective due diligence practices to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking are not taking place anywhere within either its own business or in any of its supply chains, consistent with its obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.

The Company also expects the same high standards from all its suppliers, contractors, and other business partners and, as part of its contracting processes, it includes specific prohibitions against the use of modern slavery and expects that its suppliers will, in turn, hold their own suppliers to the same standards.

Collaboration and Training 
We have recently registered with Stronger2gether, a multi-stakeholder business-led initiative aiming to reduce modern slavery particularly forced labour, labour trafficking and other hidden third-party exploitation of workers.

Stronger2gether provide guidance, training, resources and a network for employers, labour providers, workers and their representatives to work together to reduce exploitation.

We have planned full-day workshops for our Directors and Senior Managers including our Head of Purchasing and Group HR Manager.  This will be followed with further training to all our Garden Centre Managers and Buyers.

Supply Chain
Our suppliers are all subject to Due Diligence checks which seek to identify any indicators of Slavery or Human Trafficking, we will also establish where our suppliers are members of any organisation providing accreditation of Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking in their manufacturing and supply chain.

We have plans to develop our own Supplier Code of Conduct over the coming months.

We will continue to develop our expertise through training, development and raising awareness across the business and with our suppliers.

Signed on behalf of The Klondyke Group

David Yardley
Chief Executive

August 2021