MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT This statement is made by Kolak Snack Foods Ltd. It is a statement made in accordance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA) and covers our 2021 financial year which ran from 1 February 2021 to 31 January 2022. Kolak Snack Foods Ltd complies with the provisions of the MSA and the duty it places on businesses to disclose publicly the steps we are taking to tackle forced labour and human trafficking. We have in place a regular mechanism to review and improve our practices through effective due diligence and risk assessment, continuing to raise awareness and acting to protecting the most vulnerable groups of people.   OUR ORGANISATION Kolak Snack Foods Ltd, based in UK, is part of the Europe Snacks Group, a privately owned private label savoury snacks manufacturer operating in France, Spain and the UK. The supply chain for Kolak Snack Foods Ltd includes relationships with external business for the sourcing of products and several of these suppliers are based outside of the United Kingdom. Due to the nature of our products, we work with strategic supply partners globally. OUR POLICIES We are committed to ensuring that modern slavery or human trafficking does not exist either within our supply chain or any part of our business. We will not associate with any business that is knowingly in breach of the Act and its expectations or which we know is engaged in slavery or human trafficking. Our approach to responsible sourcing reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in our business relationships. As a supplier to our customers, we are audited against their individual Codes of Practice, of which ethical standards form part of the audit scope. It is a requirement that we be ethically compliant to gain approval as a supplier. We are also third party audited by accreditation bodies and ethical standards are part of these audit scopes. We are committed to the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and we are regularly audited by third parties who publish our audit results in the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX). Our policies are communicated through various methods, including on our Employee Handbook, accessible on our shared drives, from our HR Team, on our noticeboards. Our approach is reviewed on a regular basis (minimum annually) by a Steering Team. This Modern Slavery Statement is published on our website. DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES FOR MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING As part of our ongoing work to identify, review and mitigate risk we have systems in place to  - Identify and assess potential areas of risk in our organisation  - Mitigate the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking occurring in our supply chains - Support ongoing communication mechanisms, including whistle blowing SUPPLIER ADHERENCE TO MODERN SLAVERY We have a zero-tolerance stance towards modern slavery and human trafficking. To ensure that our supply chain and contractors work to comply with the ETI and the MSA we have put in place a supply chain compliance programme which includes an approval process prior to commencement of supply which includes self-assessment questionnaires and audits designed to establish a risk rate and the relevant control measures to monitor supply risk assessment, monitoring of performance, our affiliation to SEDEX and conducting regular agency contractor audits.  We encourage our suppliers with a total turnover in excess £36 million to also release a modern slavery statement of their own and publish in their relevant websites where applicable. TRAINING To raise awareness of slavery and trafficking, and of our policies and procedures, we have an established Induction programme to include Modern Slavery. This has been shared with our Labour Providers.  In 2022, we are continuing to develop the skills and knowledge of key frontline employees across our business.  May 03rd, 2022 Rikin Lakhani Signed by Rikin Lakhani, Managing Director On behalf of Kolak Snack Foods Ltd   