Modern Slavery Statement
Vibrant Foods Limited is a leading manufacturer and distributor of South Asian foods in the UK with the following brands in its portfolio: TRS, East End Foods, Cofresh, Everest Dairies and Fudco. This statement is made pursuant to section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the financial year ending 31st December 2021 and sets out the steps Vibrant Foods Limited has taken to ensure that modern slavery or human traﬃcking is not taking place within our manufacturing operations or supply chain. All the policies and practices outlined within it apply to all entities within the group, including:  ‣Vibrant Brands Limited  ‣TRS Cash & Carry Limited ‣TRS Wholesale Co Limited ‣Lakshmi & Sons Limited T/A Cofresh Snack Foods Organisational Structure
Vibrant Foods Limited and its subsidiaries are primarily involved in importing, processing (cleaning, grinding, milling, and packing), and distributing various ethnic food products (including spices, grains, pulses, nuts, rice, flours, and canned vegetables) in the UK and across continental Europe. We also manufacture ethnic snacks (crisps, grills, and mixed savories). We employ 650+ people across five manufacturing / packing facilities, one cash and carry, one retail store and our central oﬃce. We work with over 100 direct suppliers based around the world sourcing raw materials from countries including (but not limited to) India, China, Canada, the USA, Australia, and Italy. Approach
Vibrant Foods has a zero-tolerance approach to any form of modern slavery, including servitude, human traﬃcking and forced labour. We recognise that food production and processing may be especially vulnerable to modern slavery given the complex and global nature of its supply chains; and are committed to putting systems and controls in place that can help safeguard against any form of modern slavery. Our current approach focuses on two main areas: our owned and operated manufacturing facilities in the UK, and our relationships with direct suppliers globally.Policies and Practices
We have several policies and practices in place to ensure we are conducting our business in an ethical and transparent manner when it comes to both our owned operations, and our relationships with our suppliers.  When it comes to our owned operations, our robust recruitment practices include conducting eligibility to work in the UK checks for all employees to safeguard against individuals being forced to work against their will. When recruiting, we only partner with reputable employment agencies with a formal agreement in place that ensures they are similarly diligent in their checks. We also have a formal whistleblowing policy that encourages our employees as well as any third parties to raise any concerns related to our activities or supply chains, including any circumstances that may give rise to an enhanced risk of slavery or human traﬃcking.  Our whistleblowing procedure is designed to report disclosures without fear of reprisals and includes a confidential helpline run by an external, and independent third-party. When it comes to our suppliers, we expect all our product suppliers to comply with the principles of the Modern Slavery Act and our ESG questionnaire contains questions intended to surface the policies and practices they have in place to prevent modern slavery in their supply chains. If we were to learn of any instances of modern slavery associated with a given supplier we would invoke appropriate sanctions and require them to update their practices to safeguard against future instances. If we do not see adequate improvement, we will consider immediate termination of the business relationship. Training and Organisational Awareness
All employees receive an explanation of Modern Slavery and the company’s commitment to safeguarding against it in our company’s People Hub (an online version of our employee handbook which contains all our people policies and guidelines) and in their induction. We have recently rolled out a new learning management system (LMS) through which we plan to deliver team-specific Modern Slavery training and formally track training completion rates across our group.Performance and Planned Progress
This is Vibrant Foods’ second statement in compliance of the Modern Slavery act. In 2020 we were a newly formed group, and in 2021 we focused on integrating processes and practices, including those related to modern slavery, across all our brands and business. Internally, we launched a new online People Hub that gives all our employees easy access to the most up-to-date versions of our people policies and guidelines. And on the supplier side, we developed a new ESG questionnaire which collects more detailed information from suppliers about their social and environmental performance and worked with an external consultancy to visit and do in-depth assessments suppliers in India that account for 25% of our procurement spend across the group. In 2022, we plan to introduce a new recruitment platform internally that will help digitise and record the results of our right to work checks. We also plan to develop to develop a formal and comprehensive supplier code of conduct and do further on-site assessments of key suppliers with independent third parties. Statement Approval
This statement was approved by the board of Vibrant Foods Limited on June 28th 2022. It will be reviewed and updated annually. Umesh Parmar Director on behalf of Vibrant Foods Limited Date: June 28th 2022