 Modern Slavery Statement 2022 Our Purpose Lincolnshire Co-operative has always been proud of its ethical and responsible approach to business, operating in a helpful, inspiring and trustworthy way in the communities we serve. We take a proactive approach to managing and mitigating the risks arising and connected with Modern Slavery as a business.   Our Modern Slavery Statement for 2022 is made pursuant to s54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps we have taken to ensure that modern slavery is not taking place within our business or supply chain. This, our sixth annual statement shows how we have continued to develop our approach in this area in the past year.  Our Business    We are an independent co-operative business based in Lincoln with close to 300,000 members. The Society has over 220 outlets with its principal trading activity being its food stores, funeral homes, florist and crematorium, travel agencies, post offices and pharmacies. We trade predominantly throughout Lincolnshire, with sites in Norfolk, Nottinghamshire, Yorkshire and Cambridgeshire.    Our Suppliers  At Lincolnshire Co-operative approximately 95% of products sold within our food business are supplied by the Co-operative Group under the terms of a buying service agreement managed by Federal Retail & Trading Services Ltd (FRTS), which purchases on behalf of our food business.  FRTS has its own Modern Slavery statement & Sound Sourcing Code of Conduct which can be viewed at www.co-operative.coop/ethics. FRTS is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, whose vision is a world where all workers are free from discrimination and exploitation. As a result, we are confident that the Co-operative Group has taken and continues to take reasonable measures to minimise the risk of modern slavery within its operations and supply chain.  As a business we seek to support our local suppliers by selling their products in our stores, and as we source their products directly from them, we work with them to ensure that their operations are free from any aspects of modern slavery. We carry out due-diligence checks in relation to Modern Slavery for each potential new supplier or contractor prior to engaging with them as a business to ensure compliance with the Society’s standards around Modern Slavery. All prospective local suppliers to our food business have an audit carried out by our Buying Team which covers Modern Slavery to ensure compliance with our standards around this subject. Once accepted, suppliers are asked to complete our bespoke i-Learn module on Modern Slavery to increase their knowledge and awareness in this area.   We maintain an approved contractor list for construction works and services and only companies held on this list are used. We ask these companies to also complete our bespoke i-Learn module on Modern Slavery, to ensure our standards as a business are maintained and to raise awareness within the contractor’s own operations. It is also a requirement of our standard terms and conditions that they confirm compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.       Our Policies and Procedures At Lincolnshire Co-operative we maintain policies and procedures to mitigate the risk of any person being exploited within our business. These include:  • A robust recruitment policy, including eligibility to work in the UK checks for all potential colleagues, to safeguard against Human Trafficking or persons being forced to work against their will.  • A Whistleblowing Policy to allow concerns to be raised in complete anonymity by anyone without fear of reprisal. • A Modern Slavery Policy and Human Rights Policy to help underpin this statement.    As well as having in place internal and external whistleblowing reporting channels, our colleagues can also report any suspicions or concerns that they may have internally to our Security Team via the Society’s intranet, to allow for any further investigation if appropriate at a business-level.     Training and Raising Awareness All of our colleagues have undertaken Modern Slavery training in the past year. Colleagues with specific responsibilities in relation to Modern Slavery prevention also undertake additional enhanced training sourced from external providers as appropriate.   In the year we have extended the provision of Modern Slavery training to all of the Society’s commercial tenants and suppliers which is accessed through the Society’s on-line training portal.   We have maintained our relationship with Lincolnshire Police during 2022, engaging with their Modern Slavery Offices regularly to keep updated on instances of Modern Slavery in our area.  We recognise Modern Slavery Day in October each year internally to our business by sharing information on Modern Slavery with our colleagues through our Colleague app and raise awareness of how this is relevant to us as a business. Monitoring and Effectiveness    We know the steps we are taking in relation to Modern Slavery are effective by: • The number of incidents or reports received from our colleagues, the public or law enforcement agencies. • The increased number of our colleagues who have completed our Modern Slavery i-Learn module. • The increased number of our suppliers and contractors who have completed our Modern Slavery i-Learn module. • The number of commercial tenants taking up the opportunity to complete our Modern Slavery i-Learn module. • The maintenance of regular contracts with law enforcement agencies by those colleagues with specific responsibilities for the prevention of Modern Slavery.  Approval of this Statement      This statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 09 November 2022:  Signed:  David Cowell Chair  