2020/21Minor, Weir and WillisModern Slavery StatementThis statement articulates our actions to understand all of the relevant and potential risks to the business, the steps and practices around recognising and preventing modern slavery in both our own business and our supply chain. This statement has been published in accordance with Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes Minor, Weir & Willis (MWW) slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year 1st January – 31st December 2021.We are aware that the COVID-19 pandemic has not affected everyone equally and in particular has created more challenges in some areas of the business. We are committed to ensuring all workers across our sites are treated ethically and fairly and supporting them in navigating these uncertain times.  Business Structure &  Supply ChainsEstablished in 1963, and located in Birmingham at the heart of the UK’s road and rail networks, we specialise in the procurement and growing of produce both in the UK and from around the World for sale in the UK and continental Europe. Our Chairman and Board of Directors are ultimately responsible for delivering our commitments on tackling modern slavery in our business and our supply chain. They are fully committed to playing their part in helping to eradicate modern slavery and supporting ethical labour practices across all of our sites. They are supported by our heads of procurement, human resources and technical departments, who provide updates on compliance and our approach to continuous improvement.IntroductionPolicy for employeesMWW recognise the risks of modern slavery and have put in place a number of policies that relate to slavery and human trafficking across the business. The policies and procedures are based on the recognised standards of the ETI Base Code, the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and the UK Modern Slavery act.These policies and procedures are regularly reviewed  and amended to ensure we continually move forward  in our goals.These include our: ‒Ethical Policy ‒Equal Opportunities Policy ‒Grievance Policy ‒Whistleblowing Policy ‒Anti-Bribery Policy ‒Bullying & Harassment policy ‒Modern Slavery Factsheet ‒Safe Guarding Policy.These policies provide clarity to line managers, colleagues, agency workers and our agency labour providers on the company’s standards and processes that are applied in order to protect our workers from the threat of labour exploitation.All our colleagues are expected to comply with our Code of Conduct which describes how we aim to ensure everyone works together in a fair and respectful way creating an environment free from bullying, victimisation and harassment.Grievances and Whistle-blowingMWW encourages anyone within our business who has a suspicion of modern slavery to speak to their Line Manager and/or the HR department, additionally a confidential helpline has been set up. High impact posters have been issued in key locations across the business especially in areas that heavily rely on temporary labour. These are displayed prominently on staff noticeboards and in other high traffic areas to encourage anybody with a suspicion of modern slavery to call the Helpline. Our whistleblowing hotline, which is free and anonymous, enables both employees and agency workers to raise any potential concerns in relation to employment standards and ethics. Information on how to contact the whistleblowing hotline is prominently displayed throughout the business. On top of raising awareness via posters, toolbox talks, the induction process and training, we also have quarterly worker representative meetings and focus groups in which issues can be raised and discussed.As a matter of policy, we support any whistleblower who raises a genuine concern, even if they turn out to be mistaken. All reports are fully investigated and if required, preventative action completed.Grievance mechanisms and access to remediation are a key part of our due diligence and management controls. All workers are encouraged to submit feedback either directly, through their Line Manager, or anonymously via our whistleblower helpline. There are no boundaries to the issues that the workers can raise, they could include issues such as product safety, integrity, quality or legality, working conditions, pay, living arrangements and the recruitment process. All feedback is investigated and followed up as appropriate. In 2021, four grievances were investigated and successfully closed out, our grievance mechanisms are designed to be open and transparent and in line with the ACAS grievance procedure.Our PoliciesPolicy for suppliersMWW requires compliance with our policies and procedures relating to modern slavery and worker welfare from all our labour providers, agencies and suppliers. We continue to work with and assist our supply chain to implement their own relevant policies and procedures to help identify and manage their own supply chain risks. We look to create long-term partnerships that develop a working environment that overcomes modern slavery and drives ethical labour practice as its foundation.The cornerstone of our approach towards tackling modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain is our “Ethical Policy” and “Supplier Undertaking” that all our suppliers sign annually. These documents have a strong emphasis on modern slavery and human trafficking and include access to the MWW Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement.Risk Assessment and Due Diligence Processes within our UK operationsEmployment of seasonal and casual labour through agencies is considered to be an area that is at high risk of slavery or human trafficking within the business. This risk has increased over the last two years due to both COVID-19 restrictions and Brexit. MWW will review annually the steps it has taken to address the risks of slavery and human trafficking in its business and in its supply chain, including the effectiveness of internal processes for reporting and escalation of issues. It is our vision for all workers to be fairly treated and to ensure that their working conditions are safe and secure environments to give them the freedom to develop and grow within the business.All recruitment for permanent and fixed term employees is managed through our centralised HR team. Any new appointment is first validated by senior management and the independent HR team.All candidates are vetted by our Human Resource team, before they are processed as an employee. Further, HR will ensure that all employment contracts and right to work checks have been properly completed and the candidate has been met in person.All payee details are checked monthly by our Payroll team to identify any duplicate bank accounts and on the first day of employment, we also conduct a visual check that the bank details provided belong to the employee.We use temporary labour in our operations which we have acknowledged is a high risk area for the business. To control risks of modern slavery, we work closely with our labour providers who are all well-recognised market leaders in their field. We ensure all agencies implement robust recruitment processes in any of our temporary/ agency appointments, including vetting of a candidate’s identity, right to work documents, bank account and employment history.As part of MWW’s efforts to monitor and reduce the risk of slavery and human trafficking in our UK supply chain, our human resources department has adopted the following steps: ‒Monthly checks of the GLAA website to ensure no issues have been raised against our labour suppliers. ‒Due diligence checks on each of our labour suppliers, a minimum two per year. ‒Full audits using complyer audit system from the ALP are carried out annually with all labour suppliers. ‒A SMETA audit carried out annually at each of our sites.  ‒Bi-weekly interviews with field workers covering all of the key indicators for modern slavery.Our PoliciesModern Slavery Risk within our Supply ChainWe are determined to address our human rights issues wherever they arise and have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery.In line with the UNGP Framework we are focussing on our salient human rights issues. These are the human rights that are at risk of the most severe negative impacts through a company’s activities or business relationships.We have approached a salient risk assessment using the SEDEX RADAR tool which produces scores by risk type producing a ranking of risks to determine priority actions.Our four salient issues are those that stand out because of their significant potential negative impact (or ‘salience’) through our activities or business relationships.This process does not downplay or ignore other key human rights risks but aims to focus time and resource on areas where we can achieve the most benefit and impact1. Health & Safety2. Working Hours3. Discrimination – fairness in the work place, diversity & equal opportunity4. Forced LabourWe are aware of the limitations of audits and are determined to strengthen the understanding that we have through our own structured visits, partnerships with local NGO’s and collaboration with the wider industry.Whilst our focus is on the salient issues we are also vigilant to new or emerging issues, and these are captured through collaboration with the wider industry through organisations such as FNET.In addition to these key focus areas we also ensure that all suppliers are subject to a risk management process focussed on ethical risk.Our risk management steps include: ‒All suppliers are required to link to us on SEDEX and complete the associated SAQ’s. ‒A full risk assessment is carried out for all suppliers with the risk calculator taking into consideration:• Country of origin• Latest audit status• Onsite labour splits and due diligence• Sedex risk rating‒ Any suppliers deemed high risk are required to undertake an independent ethical audit, preferably SMETA and any corrective actions closed within the agreed timescales. ‒We maintain a team of skilled technical staff to support our suppliers in both their response and management of corrective actions. ‒ Based on our risk assessment we work directly with our suppliers on a range of projects and initiatives to improve working conditions. ‒We are members of FNET and a number of overseas ethical forums where we actively participate and collaborate with the wider industry, sharing learnings and best practice.Our PoliciesTraining and AwarenessTraining is an integral part of our strategy in raising the profile of modern slavery and forced labour risks within our business and supply chain. We are actively working to increase awareness in our business of the presence of modern slavery in the UK. We used an e-learning training module through Stronger2gether to improve the knowledge and understanding of key employees and have continued to run targeted training to our employees who have direct management of workers in our supply chains. The purpose of this module is to raise employee awareness of the existence of modern slavery in the UK, to help them identify the signs that someone maybe a victim of modern slavery, and to advise them of what action should be taken in the event that they identify an individual at risk.Through this training our employees are encouraged to identify and report any suspected breaches of the organisations anti-slavery and human trafficking policy. Employees are trained in the benefits of stringent measures to tackle slavery and human trafficking, as well as the consequences of failing to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from our business and supply chains. So far, we have 22 managers and supervisors that have taken part.Training and Awareness OverseasCOVID restrictions have limited the travel plans of our team over the past two years but the use of overseas team members coupled with online events has ensured that capacity building has been maintained. MWW have been involved in several projects to support our overseas suppliers through the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, we were part of the “Vulnerable Supply Chain Facility”, a successful collaborative bid led by the ETI. The project included our own business in Kenya as well as suppliers in both Kenya and Zimbabwe. The VSCF project was based on a need’s assessment allowing us to gather feedback from both the management teams and the workforce, ensuring that workstreams were targeted for their specific needs. We also ensured the learnings were shared through government led learning events and forums such as FNET.Our PoliciesBelow is an update on the next steps that were set in the previous year.Continue to provide tailored modern slavery training within our UK operationsDue to the impact of COVID-19 on our workforce and social distancing constraints we had to pause some of our planned training in the past year. However, this is being picked up in the coming year to ensure our long-term commitments are achieved and this pause to the training is remedied.Ensure effective communication of the Modern Slavery helpline and our own in-house whistleblowing line ensuring all reports are followed up and investigated fully in accordance with our policyWe have continued to maintain and strengthen our communication of the modern slavery helpline and our own in-house whistleblowing line over the past year. This has been communicated out in the induction as well as through an awareness-raising programme across the business.  Annual supplier risk assessment review to plan & support supplier developmentOur annual risk assessment has been completed to ensure audits and interventions are in place where required. As detailed in our modern slavery risks above, we have developed a longer-term strategy to focus on our most salient risks. This does not ignore other key human rights risks but aims to focus time and resource on areas where we can achieve the most benefit and impact.  A summary of progress to date is detailed on the next page:Performance Measures and ActionsSalient RiskFocus CountryUpdateForced Labour UKRRT self-assessment tool completed, incorporating policy development, remediation policy pending “Good Practice Guidance for Seasonal Workers” Implemented applicable requirements ALP/FNET engagement, sharing and collaboratingZimbabweAmendments to FDD & SMETA focussing on prison labourPartnering with like-minded businesses to roll out &Wider worker engagementIndia Direct worker engagement (&Wider) – First call cycle completed  following supply base reviewBrazil Initial 2nd Party audits completed and ongoing engagement plan and focussed site plan being developed utilising MWW training resourcesWorking hours Colombia Review SMETA NC & third party data to identify how seasons and growers are affected. Training and resources provided to raise awareness and educate management teamsEgypt Implementation of Electronic  clock in/out records for record keeping and data analysis.  Engaging in country resource for this region to support focussed engagement and follow up of workstreamsWorker engagement – successful &Wider/PA COVID-19 impact assessment Morocco Seeking in country resource for this regionDiscrimination Morocco Review SMETA NC & third party data to identify how seasons and growers are affected - CompletedGender sensitive SMETA audit pilot underwayEgypt Review SMETA NC & third party data to identify how seasons and growers are affected - CompletedGender sensitive SMETA audit pilot underwayWorker engagement – further &Wider call cycles arrangedKenyaReview SMETA NC & third party data to identify how seasons and growers are affected - CompletedVSCF project identification and mitigation of COVID stigmatisation Farm work engagement tools developed and rolled out.Dom Rep &Wider project completed with a reduction of Red risk from 16% negative to 4% negative.Financial Literacy identified – Staff courses to be initiated next seasonHIV identified as the major source of discrimination from SEDEX data review – Awareness training to be rolled out taking learnings from KenyaHealth and Safety Ivory Coast Limited progress due to travel accessZimbabwe &Wider worker engagement project planned Continued in house & third-party auditing of our own operations targeting zero non-conformancesWe have continued our auditing programme throughout the pandemic and ensured that any issues that have come to light are rectified and closed off.Continued third party auditing of all high-risk suppliers ensuring all non-conformances are addressed and signed off within agreed timeframes.Our 3rd party audit program has continued successfully despite the issues created with the global pandemic, the table below summarises the numbers of audits that have taken place within our supply chain we saw a slight decrease in audits during 2019/20 due to auditor availability linked to the pandemic, this has recovered in the last year with auditors reaching more sources.Progress UpdateThe map below illustrates the scale and distribution of our audits across the world.Number of supplybase ethical audits conducted.Progress UpdateEnsure ethical training reaches priority supply chainsEthical training and capacity building at source both remain an important part of our approach to raising standards within our own operations and within our supply base. An overseas team has been developed to support our supply chain during the pandemic providing training and intervention in addition video conferencing and virtual assessments carried out from the UK.Next StepsWe will continue to review the effectiveness of our policies, procedures and training so that we can reduce the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking within our business and supply chain. Our work on modern slavery cannot stand still. Over the next year we will focus our efforts on; ‒ Focussed project work to address our identified salient risks ‒Annual supplier risk assessment to ensure effective on-going risk management ‒Continued third party auditing of all high-risk suppliers ensuring all non-conformances are addressed and signed off within agreed timeframes ‒Ensure ethical training reaches priority supply chains ‒Continued in house & third-party auditing of our own operations with a target that any issues that have come to light are rectified and closed off ‒Continue to provide tailored modern slavery training within our UK operationsDavid AlderDirectorMinor, Weir & Willis29th April 2022