 1  Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement for the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2021 (‘FY2021’)  This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 (Part 6) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (‘Act’) and sets out the steps that Nichols plc (‘Nichols’) has taken during FY2021 to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not occurring within either Nichols’ own business or supply chains.   Nichols considers that people, whether employees or part of the wider supply chain, are a vital asset to Nichols’ business and their safety and well-being is of paramount importance.   This statement has been approved by Nichols’ Board of Directors and signed by John Nichols, the Non-Executive Chairman of Nichols.  Company Overview Nichols is an international soft drinks business. Nichols engages with a large number of suppliers, customers, distributors and licensees throughout the United Kingdom and the world. Whilst these organisations are not owned or controlled by Nichols, it nevertheless remains an important requirement that they operate to the same anti-slavery and anti-human trafficking principles applied by Nichols in relation to Nichols’ own business and supply chain.  For example, it is a contractual requirement that all licensees comply with the highest ethical standards at all times.  Nichols’ Environmental, Social and Governance (‘ESG’) Nichols’ purpose is to ‘Make life taste better’ and this means growing Nichols’ business in a way that manages Nichols’ social and environmental impacts responsibly, and makes Nichols’ people and our stakeholders proud.    Nichols’ Happier Future ESG Strategic Report (a copy of which is accessible on Nichols’ website) outlines Nichols’ ESG strategy.  With respect to governance, Nichols has a number of internal policies in place which uphold Nichols’ commitment to behave with integrity in all Nichols’ business dealings.   These policies include, without limitation:  • Diversity & Inclusion which includes equal opportunities and harassment and bullying; • Recruitment; • Whistleblowing; • Anti-Corruption & Bribery;   • Human Rights and Modern Slavery; • Sanctions; • Anti-Money Laundering Counter-Terrorist Financing; and • Anti-Facilitation of Tax Evasion.  Nichols strives to ensure that it does not contribute towards adverse human rights impacts through Nichols’ supply chains.  Nichols has an ongoing commitment to engage only those suppliers that uphold the same principles as Nichols and, where necessary, ensure the implementation of corrective action measures.  If any supplier fails to take steps to cease or prevent adverse human rights impacts, Nichols will reconsider and, if appropriate, terminate its business relationships with the relevant supplier.    2  Nichols’ Activities in FY2021 related to the Prevention of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking  Supply Chain Management In all of Nichols’ dealings with its suppliers, Nichols strives to ensure that the highest ethical standards are reached at all times. In FY2021 there was continued focus on the requirement to seek a long-term commitment from Nichols’ suppliers to ensure that slavery and human trafficking does not, and will not, exist in their own businesses and supply chains.   Internal Auditing In FY2021, as part of Nichols ongoing supplier assessment and selection process, 36 assessments were carried out against suppliers’ policies and procedures relating to the prevention of slavery and human trafficking, and no immediate concerns were raised. Nichols continues to audit the remainder of its suppliers and has integrated the audits into Nichols’ supplier approval and selection processes.  Enhanced Contract Protection A standard supplier contract clause requiring compliance with the Act has been developed and implemented by Nichols.  In some more pertinent cases this includes enhanced audit/termination rights to ensure more vigilant monitoring of high-risk suppliers.   Nichols Continued Commitment Nichols recognises the importance of maintaining constant vigilance to identify and address any impacts associated with slavery and human trafficking throughout its supply chains.  In recognition of the serious nature of these issues, Nichols is committed to continuing to enhance Nichols’ capacity to prevent, identify and mitigate any actual or potential impacts in this field.  Nichols has developed training for its employees on human rights, labour rights and modern slavery to ensure that they understand Nichols’ policy, procedures and their responsibilities in this area.   The roll-out of the training began in FY2021 and will continue into FY2022.  Approval by Nichols plc’s Board of Directors I, John Nichols, hereby certify that the information contained in the FY2021 Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement above is factually correct and has been approved by Nichols plc’s Board of Directors.   Signed:       John Nichols Group Non-Executive Chairman, Nichols plc 30 June 2022  