 Ocado Retail  Modern Slavery  Statement  FY 2021/2022  Introduction and Executive Summary  The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires businesses to  state the actions they have taken during the financial year  to ensure modern slavery is not taking place in their supply  chains and operations. At Ocado Retail Limited, we are  fully committed to playing our part in eliminating modern  slavery, transparently providing details of the steps taken  throughout the past 12 months. This statement refers to  the financial year ending 27th of November 2022.  It was a far from easy year with challenges to navigate  occurring on a daily basis. Our suppliers and customers emerged from the Pandemic, to  face an ongoing cost of living crisis. Worldwide, the Russian invasion of Ukraine increased  the risk of trafficking and forced labour in supply chains, while also making a huge impact  on the availability of commonly used ingredients.  During the period, we became partners of Unseen, a whistleblowing helpline that offers  support to victims of human trafficking or abuse and liaises with the relevant authorities to  bring the perpetrators to justice. We continue to sponsor Stronger 2gether and be a  member of the Food Network for Ethical Trade.  We grew our Ocado Own Brand range during the period; we continued to build and  implement our Human Rights Strategy across the growing Ocado Own Brand supply base  to ensure we maintain our high standards, allowing our own brand range to grow in a  responsible way. We have rolled out a compulsory Modern Day Slavery Training module for  all ORL colleagues.  The ongoing risk of modern slavery requires us to encourage all employees and  third-parties to remain vigilant, and immediately report any suspicions or concerns that may  impact the human rights of people working throughout the supply chain. Modern slavery is  a global issue and we believe that every individual can play their part to help to eradicate it  in the future.  This statement was approved by the Board of Ocado Retail Ltd. and signed on  their behalf by:  Hannah Gibson  CEO  2  Structure, Business and Supply Chains  (Structure of the business, parent company and supply chain)  Our Structure  Ocado Retail Limited (ORL) is a 50:50 joint venture between Marks & Spencer  Group plc and Ocado Group plc, and employs around 900 colleagues.  It is based  in Hatﬁeld, Hertfordshire with a Customer Hub located in Sunderland, Tyne and  Wear.  As both M&S and Ocado Group issue Modern Slavery Statements  separately, this report relates to Ocado Retail Limited (ORL) only.  Our Business  Ocado.com is operated by Ocado Retail Limited (ORL) and is the world’s largest  dedicated online supermarket with over 940,000 active customers, delivering to  over 80% of the UK.  Customers beneﬁt from an unbeatable range of around  50,000 products (including big-name brands, more than 5,000 items from the M&S  food and drink range and Ocado's Own-Range), unbeatable service with  next-to-no substitutions, and the most sustainable grocery proposition of any  British grocer.  Every order is carefully packed in one of seven distribution centres  using world-leading software and technology. Shopping is then delivered directly  to customers using a network of regional spokes and ﬂeet of delivery vans. Ocado  developed the ﬁrst grocery shopping app in 2010 and continues to innovate,  oﬀering customers the best possible experience. Ocado Retail is also responsible  for Zoom by Ocado, its rapid delivery service. All sites are operated by Ocado  Group, who supply logistics services to Ocado Retail, including delivery drivers,  warehouse operatives, etc.  We do not have international operations.  Figure 1: Ocado Retail Coverage Map  3  Our Supply Chains  Our products are sourced globally and Ocado Retail Limited (ORL) is unique  through the wide range of over 49,430 products that customers are able to  purchase through ocado.com.  At the time of publication, there were 1700 branded  suppliers, 292 suppliers of M&S products and 96 Ocado Own Brand suppliers,  across 157 supplying sites.  The labour force within our supply chains is varied in nature. It could include  workers who would be considered more vulnerable to exploitation, such as  temporary or seasonal workers, migrant workers recruited through labour agencies  and agency workers.  Our Governance  Human Rights & Modern Slavery risks to the Ocado Retail Limited (ORL)  business  are included in the Ocado Own Brand, Technical, Compliance & Sustainability Risk  Matrix.  Monitoring of progress against our Human Rights & Modern Slavery strategy sits  with the Board’s Audit Committee. Progress against targets is presented on a  bi-annual basis and discussed within the Compliance Forum.  Our Governance framework, and the approval of this document, is as follows:  4  Policies in relation to modern slavery and human traﬃcking  The following policies are in place and shared internally or with third parties as  required: -  ●  Grocery / General Merchandise Supplier Manual  ●  Ocado Ethical Sourcing Code of Practice  ●  Human Rights Escalation and Remediation Policy  ●  Human Rights Policy  ●  Whistleblowing Policy  ●  Anti-Bribery Policy  Grocery / General Merchandise Supplier Manual  This outlines the operational standards for suppliers who provide us with products  to sell on ocado.com and includes the requirement that suppliers sign up to the  nine ETI Base Code requirements: -  1.  Employment is freely chosen  2.  Freedom of association  3.  Working conditions are safe and hygienic  4.  Child labour shall not be used  5.  Living wages are paid  6.  Working hours are not excessive  7.  No discrimination is practised  8.  Regular employment is provided  9.  No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed  Ocado Ethical Sourcing Code of Practice  This outlines the standards our suppliers should meet in terms of: -  ●  Human Rights Accountability and Human Rights Approach  ●  Audit Requirements  ●  Training  ●  Whistleblowing  ●  Supply Chain Transparency  Human Rights Escalation and Remediation Policy  This document details our human rights escalation and remediation requirements  in line with The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights for  instances of Non-Compliances found at supplier sites.  It is understood that Ocado  Retail may cause or contribute to an adverse impact that was not foreseen or  prevented.  If it is identiﬁed that Ocado Retail is responsible for such an impact, we  will endeavour to remedy or co-operate in the remediation of the situation through  legitimate processes and will therefore: -  5  ●  Fully co-operate in legitimate external processes aimed at addressing and  resolving grievances directly and early  ●  Require that the companies with which we engage adopt grievance  mechanisms to address possible human rights infringements  ●  Assure that the collaborative and multi-stakeholder initiatives in which we  participate provide for eﬀective grievance mechanisms and / or other  measures of adequate accountability  Human Rights Policy  This policy includes provisions forbidding any use of forced, bonded or involuntary  prison labour, ensuring that workers are not required to lodge deposits or identity  papers with their employer, that child labour shall not be used and that suppliers  shall contribute to programmes that provide remedies for incidents of child labour  that conform to the provisions of the relevant International Labour Organization  (ILO) standards.  Whistleblowing Policy  This policy is designed to enable our colleagues to raise legitimate concerns in  relation to any danger, fraud or other illegal or unethical conduct in the workplace,  without fear of being subject to any detriment, victimisation or disciplinary action.  Anti-Bribery Policy  This policy sets out our responsibilities and the responsibilities of those working for  us, in observing and meeting our obligations to manage bribery, corruption and  money laundering issues.  6  Risk Assessment and Due Diligence  Due to the nature of the Ocado Retail operation, which is the selling of grocery and  general merchandise products through Customer Fulﬁlment Centres that are  operated by an independent entity (Ocado Group), construction and recruitment  are considered to be areas of low risk.  The products sold by Ocado Retail can be classiﬁed into three categories, these  being Ocado Own Range, M&S branded and third party branded.  The Ocado Own  Range is the only category that we have full control over.  We are heavily focussed  on grocery products within the Ocado Own Range category and this area is  therefore the priority for our supply chain work.  All suppliers of Ocado Own Range grocery products must be active members of  Sedex and complete a Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) on an annual  basis.  We have fully mapped our Tier 1 suppliers, which are those that pack the  Ocado Own Range products, and, through monthly reports, monitor the status of  their compliance against our ethical requirements.  We use Sedex’s Risk Radar, which provides an inherent and combined risk rating  for suppliers of Ocado Own Range products based on factors such as country,  product area, sector proﬁle and site function.  Radar enables businesses to conduct a risk assessment of themselves or their  supply chains, assessing risks by country and sector, as well as by individual site.  The tool allows us to analyse and compare not only supplier risk, but also the  management performance at a site.  Radar contains risk data based on independent and reputable sources that assess  risks in the four SMETA pillars and 14 risk topics, which include sector risk and  country risk.  Radar also includes site data that is based on information uploaded  by suppliers through their proﬁles and Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQ), as  well as from third-party audit reports.  All Tier 1 suppliers of Ocado Own Range products must undergo an independent  third party ethical audit to assess labour standards and health and safety on site,  with our requirement being a two pillar SMETA audit as a minimum.  We require all  our Tier 1 suppliers to undergo such an audit at a frequency of maximum three  years.  In April 2022, we introduced ORL Ethical Sourcing Guidance and Requirements for  Own Brand Products.  We require High Risk suppliers to undergo a two pillar  SMETA audit every year and we work with them to implement all requirements.  In 2023, we will carry out a full review of the ORL Human Rights & Modern Slavery  Strategy, including the risk assessment of all grocery and general merchandise  Ocado Own Range products.  7  Ocado Own Range  Approximately 70% of our suppliers are classiﬁed as Medium & Low Risk.  Our Tier 1 suppliers are predominantly based within the UK, with 62% of suppliers  being located here. Italy and Spain are the next signiﬁcant countries within our  supply chain, accounting for 21% of the overall total, whilst the remainder can be  viewed in the breakdown that follows: -  8  Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  The status of our key performance indicators for 2021 - 2022 is as follows: -  Deadline  Measure  Target  Status  Ongoing  % of Ocado Own Range Tier 1 suppliers registered  on Sedex  100%  100%  2023  % of Ocado Own Range Tier 1 suppliers with a  Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire completed  to 100%  100%  92%  2023  % of Ocado Own Range Tier 1 suppliers with a  two pillar SMETA Audit in the past three years  100%  100%  2024  % of Ocado Own Range High Risk Tier 1 suppliers  with a two pillar SMETA Audit in the past year  100%  60%  2024  % volume of High Risk products mapped to  source level  100%  75%  9  10  Partnerships  We are partnered with the following organisations and continue to look for further  partnerships that will enhance our due diligence. : -  British Retail Consortium  We are members of the British Retail Consortium (BRC) and sit  on both their Responsible Sourcing Group and Ethical Labour  Working Group. The BRC’s unique position, which enables it to  act as a forum for the retailing sector and to engage with governmental and  third-party organisations, is indispensable.  The Gangmasters and Labour Abuse  Authority (GLAA) and Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioner have a strong  relationship with these groups, facilitating a two-way dialogue and providing  on-the-ground information and updates on modern slavery incidents in the UK.  We are founding signatories to the British Retail Consortium’s ‘Better Retail, Better  World’, a collective action group from the retail industry to meet some of the  biggest global challenges of the coming decades, including modern slavery and  decent work, sustainable economic growth, inequalities, climate change and  responsible consumption and production.  Stronger Together  We continue to be a project sponsor of Stronger Together, a  multistakeholder business-led initiative aiming to reduce  modern slavery and hidden third-party exploitation of workers.  Food Network for Ethical Trade  We continue to be members of the Food Network for Ethical Trade  (FNET), a supplier-led initiative aiming to use the collective leverage  of suppliers and retailers to bring about positive change in working  conditions in global food supply chains by providing guidance, resources, training  and opportunities for collaboration.  Unseen  In 2022, Ocado became a partner of Unseen.  Established in  2007, Unseen is a UK charity working with individuals,  businesses, governments, communities, and other charities to help eradicate  modern slavery.  We provide safehouses and support in the community for  survivors of traﬃcking and modern slavery.  Alongside running the UK Modern  Slavery and Exploitation Helpline, Unseen provides ongoing support, not just to  survivors, but to businesses and organisations to help tackle these issues right at  their source.  11  Training and awareness raising  Ocado Retail  This year we rolled out a Human Rights & Modern Slavery compulsory training  module to all of our colleagues.  We wanted this to be a practical training module  and therefore included scenarios, advice on how to report suspicions of modern  slavery, an overview of the Modern Slavery Act, key facts and why supporting  human rights is vital to our business.  Suppliers  As part of Ocado Retail’s sponsorship of Stronger Together, all of our suppliers in  the UK and Spain have access to free Modern Slavery training.  12  Plans for FY 2022/2023  ORL Business  ORL Supply Chains  13 