1   Modern Slavery Statement: One Stop Stores 2021/22     2  Contents  Introduction ……………………………………………………………………………………………….3  Our business and supply chains………………………………………………………………… 4  Policies in relation to modern slavery………………………………………………………….6 Due diligence…………………….………………………………………………………………………….8 Assessing and tackling modern slavery risks…….……………………………………….10 Tackling modern slavery - our business operations……………………………………11 Tackling modern slavery - our supply chains………………………………………………14 Tackling modern slavery – Partnerships…….……………………………………………….15 Investigation modern slavery allegations…….……………………………………………..17 Awareness raising and capacity building…………………………………………………….18 Impact and monitoring…………………………………………………………………………………19 Plans for 2021/22……………………………………………………………………………………….23  3    Introduction.     The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the ‘Act’) requires businesses to state the actions they have taken during the financial year to ensure modern slavery is not taking place in their operations and supply chains. At One Stop, we are fully committed to playing our part in eradicating modern slavery. We firmly support transparency and collaboration to eliminate the risks of modern slavery.  This statement refers to the financial year ending 26 February 2022 and sets out the steps taken by One Stop Stores as well as relevant measures taken at wider Group level to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in our own operations and supply chains.  As we have continued to develop our human rights work, we have gained greater insight into risk and trends relating to modern slavery, which has enabled us to strengthen our approach. Over the past 12 months we have:  • Completed due diligence interviews with workers at our distribution centres. • Continued to monitor compliance with our Human Rights requirements as stated in our updated Procurement Policy. •  Reviewed and updated our Modern Slavery e-learning for colleagues and Franchisees to reflect evolving risks and include new case studies. • Continued to assess the modern slavery risks associated with our expanding online delivery offer. • Continued to work in collaboration with Tesco, to share insights on emerging risks and best practices. In the year ahead we will continue to develop our approach to managing the risk of modern slavery within our business and supply chains and ensure our strategy continues to respond to changing risks as we aim to eradicate modern slavery.  Sarah Lawler, Managing Director 15 August 2022 4  Our business and supply chains.     One Stop Stores Limited is a retail convenience business with over 690 company operated neighbourhood stores and over 250 franchise stores across England, Wales, and Scotland. Open 7 days a week, One Stop aims to meet the needs of all its local customers. We offer a range of food, beverages, non-food groceries and general merchandise. Many stores provide additional services including free cash machines, Post Office, Pay Point, Lottery, and mobile electronic top-up.  In the past two years we launched partnerships with Deliveroo, Just Eat and Uber Eats and over 600 of our stores now offer online delivery services. Our food delivery partners’ riders are self-employed contractors or agency workers. Our partners’ Modern Slavery Statements set out their approach to managing modern slavery risk. As we expand our online delivery offer, we will continue to cooperate with our food delivery partners to assess and mitigate modern slavery risks.  One Stop has over 9,860 employees and has been a subsidiary of Tesco since 2003. It operates as a separate business from a Store Support Centre in Brownhills, Walsall, and services its stores with ambient products from 3 distribution centres in Brownhills, Nursling (Hampshire) and Wakefield. We work with Greencore and Booker Retail Partners to deliver fresh food to One Stop stores. There are over 400 suppliers across fresh, frozen and ambient ranges. Over the last 7 years we have been aligning our supplier base with the wider Tesco Group. All our own-label products continue to be sourced from the same suppliers as Tesco UK stores. At the heart of everything our colleagues do is our renewed core purpose – serving our customers, communities, and planet a little better every day. This means we always keep customers at the heart of what we do, while also reflecting our responsibilities to the communities we serve, source from, and to society more broadly.  This purpose is underpinned by our values:   • Our customers are at the heart of everything we do.  • We treat people how they want to be treated.  • We work together as one team.  5  • We make things easier. These values reflect that our responsibility for the welfare of people goes far beyond those we employ directly. We want everyone who works for or with One Stop to have their human rights respected and we know our customers, colleagues and suppliers do too. We believe that our trade with people across the countries we source from should have a positive impact, creating jobs and opportunities for people all over the world. Our commitment to human rights is embedded in the PLC Annual Report (under Non-financial information statement), which includes a commitment to respect human rights across the supply chain.  Tesco’s human rights strategy, which covers the most serious challenges faced by workers, delivers against our value to treat people how they want to be treated. As part of this, Tesco have committed to: • Ensure international human rights standards are respected at all suppliers’ sites.  • Focus on the most serious risks to workers throughout our supply chains, working transparently with NGOs, unions, and others to identify and address them.  Starting with our own business operations and service providers, and then increasing the visibility we have of our global supply chains through One Stop and wider Group efforts, we work to identify actual or potential risks of modern slavery and help ensure remediation where cases are identified.  6  Policies in relation to modern slavery.   At the heart of our approach to human rights are a number of important internationally recognised declarations, standards and codes. These are the foundations for how we work across the Tesco Group, and include: • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • The International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. • The UN Global Compact. • The Base Code of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). Our approach to addressing modern slavery sits within this wider human rights agenda and is supported by the Group Human Rights policy, as well as One Stop’s Code of Conduct and Procurement policy, which includes Human Rights due diligence. These set out our obligations to customers, colleagues and communities in our own operations and supply chain.  We take any allegations of a breach of our policies extremely seriously. One Stop provides independent and confidential ‘Protector Lines’ for our colleagues. Protector Line, which is also used by the wider Tesco Group, enables our colleagues and our own label suppliers and their staff around the world to raise concerns. Insights from these services are reviewed at both One Stop and Group Compliance Committee meetings. Tesco helped to develop and strongly supports the Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) Priority Industry Principles:   These principles have underpinned the development of Tesco’s modern slavery strategy. Tesco is one of the leading companies supporting collaborative efforts to combat forced labour in the consumer goods sector. Such collaboration is particularly important in lower tiers of supply chains where we do not have direct commercial relationships.  As members of the Institute of Human Rights and Business Responsible Recruitment Leadership Group, Tesco also actively supports the Employer Pays Principle that ‘No worker should pay for a job - the costs of recruitment should be borne not by the worker but by the employer.’  7  Following a review in 2020 which included engagement with a number of key stakeholders (representatives from the ETI, the Office of the Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioner, the Consumer Goods Forum and key suppliers) Tesco published the updated modern slavery strategy in 2021. This sets out the Group’s approach for tackling modern slavery, priority areas and key milestones. Governance   Overall governance and progress monitoring of Tesco’s human rights work, for all markets and subsidiaries including One Stop’s own label supply chains, sits with the Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee, which meets four times during the year. More detailed information on the work of Tesco’s Corporate Responsibility Committee is set out in the PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2022. “Responsible Sourcing” is highlighted as a principal risk within Tesco’s business wide risk assessment and is reported within the PLC Annual Report. Exploitation of workers and human rights breaches remain the key drivers of this risk. Responsible sourcing is also a key sub-risk within One Stop’s principal risk on Brand, Reputation and Trust. We update on current and future risks, progress and performance, and breaches of our policies, to the Group Risk and Compliance Committee chaired by the Group CEO, and the One Stop Risk and Compliance Committee, on at least an annual basis.  One Stop also has an internal modern slavery working group that meets bi-annually, at a minimum, to monitor progress against our modern slavery strategy. The group consists of colleagues within People, Franchise, Procurement, Online and Distribution. The Group Responsible Sourcing Director leads Tesco’s human rights strategy and chairs an equivalent modern slavery working group within Tesco. The Tesco working group is comprised of human rights and group security colleagues and its purpose is to monitor progress against the Group modern slavery strategy and to report on alleged breaches.     8  Due diligence.   Tesco follow a robust due diligence process that was developed in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and in consultation with internal and external stakeholders. This process covers all One Stop own label products.   Potential modern slavery risks within our own operations and supply chains are assessed by considering the country of origin where products, raw materials, or services are sourced from. We use the Food Network for Ethical Trade (FNET) risk ratings to inform this, combined with internal understanding of labour rights and modern slavery risks in key sourcing sectors.  As the next stage of risk assessment, the type of work being carried out is considered (skilled, semi-skilled or un-skilled) and the type of labour (seasonal, permanent, agency, migrant labour).  Tesco gather intelligence about emerging risks through Tesco’s in-country human rights specialists and strong relationships with local groups, NGOs and organisations such as the ETI, FNET and the Consumer Goods Forum. Campaigners, activists and whistle-blowers can also play an important role in identifying where some of the biggest risks lie. Tesco engage with them and learn from their experience wherever possible.  Tesco’s 40 dedicated human rights specialists, based across ten key sourcing countries are well-placed to gather on-the-ground intelligence through direct engagement with suppliers and other relevant stakeholders. This includes capturing the views of workers through conversations, confidential interviews, and surveys. Where on the-ground capacity is not available, Tesco work with a range of experienced partners, including consultants and NGOs, who are supported by the Tesco commercial buying and quality teams. In the past 12 months, COVID-19 has continued to impact Tesco’s ability to directly engage with workers, despite the lifting of some restrictions.  9  We use the information gathered to continually reassess and respond to the potential and actual risks in our business and supply chains. The learnings from this due diligence framework then inform our human rights strategy.  Tesco’s human rights strategy was developed in consultation with 25 key stakeholders, including suppliers, academics, NGOs, and internal stakeholders. Trade union representatives were also engaged to bring the voice of people in our supply chain to inform our strategy development.  The strategy’s four focus areas reflect the most salient risk areas within our supply chains and are aligned with stakeholder priorities.  Tesco has a three-pillar approach to taking action in line with this strategy:    10  Assessing & Tackling Modern Slavery Risks.   Our Modern Slavery risks lie in two broad areas – risks associated with our supply chains and risks linked to our own operations.  All One Stop own-label products are sourced from the same suppliers as Tesco UK. One Stop benefits from the wider group’s Modern Slavery risk assessment process when it comes to our shared supply chains. For detailed information on this see the section ‘Assessing and Tackling Modern Slavery Risks’ in Tesco’s Modern Slavery Statement. Our risk assessment in relation to our own operations benefits from alignment with Tesco’s process and advice from Tesco’s specialist Human Rights team (e.g., regarding modern slavery risk factors). In addition, risk assessment is based on internal knowledge of our operations by our own senior management. Risk areas are discussed and refreshed during meetings of the One Stop Modern Slavery Working Group.  For more detail on the key risk criteria in our own operations, see the following section (Tackling Modern Slavery – Our Own Business Operations).       11  Tackling Modern Slavery – our business operations .   Our procurement policy prioritises key business areas in the UK based on our analysis of evolving risk in the sector, worker contract types, the level of skill involved in the work, wages, and our visibility of the service provider. Most of our colleagues are employed on permanent contracts. The greatest risks of modern slavery exist for workers not in permanent employment, or distribution workers employed through labour agencies, who we have less direct visibility of and often work in roles for shorter periods of time.  Our focus areas in our business operations are:  • Young people who deliver newspapers directly to people’s homes • Franchise stores  • Agency workers in our distribution centres. • Workers providing retail labour services, such as security and cleaning, for our offices and stores. • Workers in the construction industry who maintain and fit-out our stores. • Goods Not for Resale manufactured in high-risk countries. • Couriers working for third-party delivery partners We continue to evolve our understanding of risks in the sector, together with Tesco, suppliers and other external stakeholders. As a result, in 2022 after the reporting period, couriers working for third-party delivery partners was added to our policy. One Stop Own Stores   Most of our store colleagues are employed on permanent contracts. For all direct employees of One Stop, we ensure colleagues have a bank account in their own name into which we will pay their salary. We complete right to work checks and investigate any duplicate bank details. An area of risk for One Stop’s own stores is young people who deliver newspapers directly to customers’ homes and who are often under the age of 18. We ensure we comply with all local government guidelines relating to the employment of under 18’s, including restrictions on the number of working hours. Signed parental consent is required for us to employ workers under 18. Since 2019 we have additional measures to manage the risk related to home news delivery workers including additional training for management on work permit applications for under 18’s and enhanced Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Since 2020 we ensure that all Home News Delivery colleagues are paid via bank transfer. Franchise Stores   For our franchisees, our contracts include a requirement for them to obtain and check right to work documents for all colleagues as well as making a commitment to adhere to the modern slavery legislation (the Modern Slavery Act 2015). To support our franchisees, we provide right to work briefing documents which includes examples of 12  documents that are acceptable evidence. Every quarter, as part of a routine compliance visit, we review these processes in all our franchise stores. Franchisees have access to our e-learning resources outlining our approach to tackling modern slavery and providing tools on how to recognise and respond to risks within our own-operations. New Franchisees are asked to complete the training upon joining One Stop. Distribution Centres  All labour providers we use in our distribution centres receive modern slavery training. In 2021/22, we conducted worker interviews at our distribution centres. The primary aim of these meetings is to speak 1:1 with agency workers to better understand their recruitment journey and experience of being employed at a One Stop site. These visits complement the on-going worker engagement conducted by both our labour providers and on-site supervisors. We identified no indicators of modern slavery.  We are committed to continue conducting worker interviews across our distribution sites in 2022/23. Service Providers  COVID-19 further impacted our approach to managing modern slavery risks within our operations by causing delays to independent ethical audits of goods providers produced in high-risk countries.  Our procurement policy is aligned, where appropriate, to Group Human Rights requirements. Enhanced Human Rights requirements relate to suppliers in key risk areas (as described above) and include. Under the policy, identified suppliers are required to undertake robust mitigating steps, such as:  • Independent ethical audits, which include a review of the supplier’s management systems to ensure they are adhering to the ETI Base Code, worker interviews, and analysis of how worker recruitment is managed. This is applicable to goods not for resale suppliers who produce One Stop branded products (or products made to our specifications) with production in high-risk countries. • Attend tailored modern slavery training hosted by Stronger Together (for labour agencies, store fitting and maintenance service providers, food delivery partners and retail labour service providers such as cleaning and security). This a UK based multi-stakeholder initiative aiming to reduce modern slavery through guidance and training. • On site due diligence (in the form of worker interviews) at sites where suppliers provide agency labour. In 2022/23 we will introduce additional due diligence requirements for food delivery partners in line with Tesco’s and One Stop’s policy updates introduced since the end of this reporting period.   13  Goods and services sourced from Xinjiang Province  Following reports, media coverage and in line with UK Government guidance relating to allegations of systemic human rights abuses including modern slavery against the Uighur population living in the Xinjiang province of China, we along with Tesco conducted an assessment of our procurement supply chains to identify any supply from the region. As a result, we terminated our relationship with two suppliers. We continue to monitor this in our supply chains. In  2020 Tesco responded to a request from the UK Parliament on potential sourcing risks from this region, which can be accessed here. Online Partners - Food Delivery Services  Since 2019/20 we have been expanding our online food delivery offer to enhance further our customers’ shopping experience. We currently partner with Deliveroo, Just Eat and Uber Eats, who provide delivery services across approx. 600 One Stop stores. However, this sector often relies on recruiting couriers on a temporary and irregular basis, which can heighten the risks of certain types of exploitation such as minimum pay rates, deductions, or excessive working hours (couriers are most often classed as self-employed). We are committed to ensuring the human rights of anyone working for us through a third party are respected. In cooperation with Tesco, we have conducted due diligence with our partners and will continue working collaboratively with them to address any risks over the coming year.  In particular, in 2022/23 we updated our Procurement Policy (in cooperation with Tesco) to include these partnerships as an area of heightened due diligence and will develop requirements for partners in the coming year to include activities such as modern slavery training and ongoing communication with our partners re. Human Rights due diligence. The Consumer Goods Forum  Tesco continue to participate in the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) Human Rights Coalition — Working to End Forced Labour, which brings together retailers and manufacturers to drive meaningful sector-wide change. The CGF members developed a Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) Maturity Framework designed to tackle forced labour in own operations. Tesco disseminates relevant resources from the CGF to One Stop.    14  Tackling Modern Slavery – our supply chains.   All One Stop own-label products are sourced from the same suppliers as Tesco UK. One Stop benefits from the wider group’s Modern Slavery control framework when it comes to our shared supply chains. For detailed information on these controls see the section ‘Tackling Modern Slavery in Our Supply Chains’ in Tesco’s Modern Slavery Statement.      15  Tackling Modern Slavery – Partnerships.    We can play an important role in improving working conditions for workers, including reducing the risk of modern slavery, through collaboration with suppliers, NGOs, industry bodies and government. One Stop benefits from being part of the wider Tesco Group when it comes to partnerships with various organisations fighting modern slavery. Working in partnership with others pre-competitively is vital to addressing risks of modern slavery, particularly further down the supply chain where our direct commercial influence may be less significant. Over the past 12 months, Tesco have continued to engage in a number of multi-stakeholder initiatives to tackle systemic issues. All of these initiatives, examples of which are below, have sought to factor in the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on workers. Tesco continue to prioritise initiatives that align with strategy and where meaningful leverage can be achieved.  Unseen partnership  Since 2019 Tesco have partnered with the anti-slavery charity Unseen, who run the UK’s 24/7 independent and confidential Modern Slavery & Exploitation Helpline. The helpline’s trained advisors are able to support potential victims of modern slavery as well as offer a way for businesses and the public to raise suspicions or concerns, complementing our own Protector Line. Real-time translation is available in over 180 languages. We require our primary supplying sites in the UK to promote the helpline, enabling us to continue to raise awareness of modern slavery. Since 2020 we promote the helpline in One Stop’s distribution centres.  Through the Unseen business portal, which provides us with information about concerns reported to the helpline, Tesco gained visibility of eight potential cases linked to supply chains in 2021 (see section Investigating Modern Slavery Allegations for detail).  Modern Slavery Intelligence Network   The Modern Slavery Intelligence Network (MSIN) is a non-profit collaboration in the UK food sector created in response to the findings of Operation Fort, the UK’s largest ever modern slavery investigation. Tesco have taken leading roles in the legal and external stakeholder workstreams.  Throughout 2021, members have met regularly and engaged with external stakeholders, including but not limited to law enforcement agencies, to share plans and seek guidance on the approach the MSIN should take in order to achieve successful outcomes. The MSIN is working together to ensure, as far as possible, that robust mechanisms are in place to safeguard those who may be impacted by modern slavery and/or worker exploitation and their data. This has required a significant commitment from all members involved and engagement with several internal 16  functions including human rights, ethical trading, legal, data protection, privacy and IT security. MSIN has selected the NGO and independent international charity STOP THE TRAFFIK, to provide a secure platform for information and intelligence sharing, along with expert analysis and guidance on modern slavery prevention and remediation. It is intended that members will share details of potential or actual incidents of modern slavery or worker exploitation through the online platform with STOP THE TRAFFIK, who will then analyse and enrich the data using dedicated tools and resources. This enables the MSIN to build a robust evidence base that can be shared with members and, where appropriate will give the MSIN a body of information and/or intelligence that can, in appropriate circumstances, be shared with law enforcement bodies. Live intelligence sharing is due to start in early 2022. Following the success of the pilot, the MSIN aims to be in a position to launch formally in June 2022 and to report publicly on the findings from its pilot.  Food Network for Ethical Trade (FNET)   Together with suppliers and other retailers, Tesco continue to participate in FNET, a network developed to support collaboration throughout supply chains, including addressing priority risks such as modern slavery. We work closely with Tesco who share relevant insights gained through their participation in FNET and other initiatives. This year FNET, has continued bi-monthly calls to serve as an invaluable forum for members to share details of the challenges faced as a result of the pandemic, including increased risks of modern slavery. The group has provided a forum to highlight emerging issues such as excessive working hours, supply chain pressures and audit effectiveness. Tesco continue to participate actively in the FNET Responsible Recruitment workstream where members seek to map recruitment fees in key supply chains and seek alignment on due diligence.      17  Investigating Modern Slavery Allegations.   While we have limited experience with potential instances of modern slavery within our own operations, we have an investigation process which would be triggered in such cases. Our Risk and Compliance Manager, along with our People and Security teams, would be One Stop’s key points of contact in case of suspected instances of modern slavery.  We would also work closely with Tesco and benefit from their established internal incident management and escalation process and expertise in the field of modern slavery. Within group, allegations are investigated by human rights and Group Safety, Security and Resilience (GSSR) colleagues with a range of expertise and experience, including former law enforcement officers and investigators.  Tesco continue to engage proactively with the UK Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA), police forces, the office of the Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioner and relevant experts to better understand risks and address issues identified. We could receive intelligence through Group, ethical audits, our own worker interviews, Protector Line or NGO or media reports. This would immediately trigger an investigation. Where our suppliers identify possible indicators of modern slavery within their own operations, we would work with group to support and monitor their investigations.  In the past 12 months, we did not identify any confirmed or alleged cases of modern slavery within our own operations.   Tesco have identified 12 allegations containing some indicators of either labour abuse or modern slavery within supply chains. Four of these relate to suppliers that also work with One Stop. Four instances of potential labour abuse were confirmed within Tesco’s supply chain. One of these relates to a supplier that also works with One Stop. No confirmed instances of modern slavery were found. In every instance of confirmed labour abuse, Tesco promptly implemented robust and thorough corrective plans, working closely with suppliers and internal teams where appropriate. In any case where the human rights team are not satisfied that suitable corrections can be evidenced within agreed timeframes, relationships would be exited.  Grievance Mechanisms  We know that effective grievance mechanisms are key to identifying human rights allegations. As part of Tesco’s broader human rights strategy, in line with the UN Guiding Principles, we continue to ensure access to grievance mechanisms within our supply chains and own operations.  Colleagues have a range of feedback and grievance mechanisms available to them, including through their dedicated People Partner, our Whistleblowing policy, our confidential Protector Lines, and the annual Viewpoint Colleague Survey. We also carry out ad hoc agency worker interviews in our distribution centres.  All One Stop own-label products are sourced from the same suppliers as Tesco UK. When it comes to our suppliers, we benefit from the wider group’s grievance mechanisms. Detailed information on the Tesco grievance mechanism can be found in the Tesco Modern Slavery Statement.   18  Awareness raising and capacity building.    Raising awareness of modern slavery, both within our business and our supply chains, is an important part of our strategy. We know that identifying potential and actual cases requires upskilling colleagues and suppliers to understand the drivers of modern slavery as well as the possible indicators.  This year we continued to run online training targeting the colleagues in our business who have direct contact with workers in our own-operations and supply chains (or with high risk third parties), including our Area Managers, People Partners, Business Development Managers, Online team members and relevant distribution colleagues. Training was also made available to our franchisees. The content of our e-learning was refreshed in 2021/22 to ensure it stays relevant and current.  To date we have trained over 170 One Stop colleagues (100% of priority colleagues) and over 250 Franchisees (97%) on modern slavery. We continue to require all our own label suppliers based in the UK to attend ‘Stronger Together’ training on tackling modern slavery. This requirement also includes high risk service providers such as labour agencies and shop fitting and maintenance providers as well as the second-tier suppliers of our key UK food suppliers. Over the past six years, 2,353 representatives from Tesco’s food supply chains have attended this training. We strongly encourage all fruit and wine producers to attend ‘Stronger Together’ training in South Africa with 674 individuals trained to date.  In 2021 Tesco also started mandating the completion of the Stronger Together Progress Reporting Tool for all UK based suppliers. Using this online self-assessment, companies can track the progress they have made in addressing modern slavery risks and identify the next steps for their businesses and supply chains, to ensure their approach continues to evolve. 19  Impact and monitoring.   Tesco use two Key Performance Indicators to track progress under the updated group modern slavery strategy. One Stop will also seek to meet these:   One Stop’s and Tesco’s 2020-21 Modern Slavery statements communicated a third goal: ‘Zero workers’ pay for a job in 100% of primary sites in priority supply chains/regions’ to be achieved by the end of 2023. We and Tesco remain committed to eradicating all recruitment fees and costs across our supply base, however the hidden nature of many recruitment fees and costs means this can be challenging. Additionally, in supply chains and regions where Tesco have less leverage, we are more reliant on industry-wide action and government engagement. Tesco continue to engage our key stakeholders to build comprehensive timebound action plans and we are reviewing how we track progress against this goal in a robust way.  We track progress against our commitment to provide training to our colleagues using the following KPI:  We will continue to report annually within this statement on the below additional metrics and measures of success:  1 Priority colleagues defined as One Stop Area Managers, Business Development Managers, People Partners and Distribution Managers.   By end of  Target Measure   Status     2021 100% priority colleagues1 and primary suppliers in the UK trained on forced labour  % of in-scope One Stop colleagues, and Goods for Resale primary suppliers trained in the UK on modern slavery.  Colleague training is managed within One Stop, while primary supplier training is managed at group level. 100% of One Stop priority colleagues trained on modern slavery, including forced labour 90%of primary suppliers trained in the UK on modern slavery, including forced labour  2022 Zero workers pay for a job in 100% of primary sites in Thailand and Malaysia   % of in-scope sites compliant with the Responsible Recruitment requirements – Thailand and Malaysia. This KPI is led at Group level as One Stop products are sourced from the same suppliers as Tesco UK. To be completed by the end of 2022. By end of Target Measure 2022  100% of priority colleagues trained on Modern Slavery  % of in-scope One Stop colleagues trained on modern slavery, which includes forced labour 20   Measure   Status 2021- 2022 Number of One Stop colleagues trained on modern slavery   176  Number of Franchisees trained on modern slavery 254  Number of cases with modern slavery indicators identified in own-operations and supply chains  None. Number of cases with labour abuse indicators identified in own-operations and supply chains 4. One of these was substantiated, Corrective action plans were immediately implemented in all instances and carefully monitored by the human rights team to ensure continuous improvement. (Work led by Group, see section Investigating Modern Slavery Allegations for detail). Number of modern slavery cases successfully remediated   We did not identify any confirmed cases of modern slavery in 2021-22.    We also monitor progress against the commitments we make within our Modern Slavery Statement each year.  Complete additional due diligence visits at our distribution centres carried out by ethical specialists.2 We completed 25 agency worker interviews across our three distribution centres. This fell short by 5 from the target of 10 interviews per site, which we plan to implement this year.   Continue to monitor compliance with our new Human Rights requirements as stated in our updated Procurement Policy, ensuring effective mitigation of risks within our own operations. We continued to monitor compliance with our Human Rights requirements. All 22 UK based high risk suppliers confirmed attendance of modern slavery training. A SMEATA audit for one of our suppliers identified two critical non-conformances. We work with the supplier to ensure closing of NCs and high levels of ethical compliance.   Another high-risk supplier failed to produce evidence of a SMETA audit. We no longer  2 Ratings are based on the following: Green – Action fully completed, Amber – Action partly completed, Red – Less than 50% of the action completed 21  work with this supplier as their services are not required. Review and update our Modern Slavery e-learning for colleagues and Franchisees to reflect evolving risks and include new case studies. We updated the contents of our Modern Slavery e-learning to highlight new risks associated with the Covid-19 pandemic and include latest case studies. We also introduced an addition training video for propriety colleagues, providing more detailed information on Modern Slavery.   Continue to assess any potential modern slavery risks associated with our expanding online delivery offer. . Throughout the year we collaborated with Group, our Online team and our three food delivery partners to understand the modern slavery and huma rights risks associated with this new area of operation. We will continue our collaboration with food delivery partners in the coming year to enhance controls and further reduce the risks related to human rights and modern slavery. Continue to work in collaboration with Tesco, to share insights on emerging risks and best practices. We continue to collaborate with Tesco to share insights on emerging risks and best practices. For example, we worked together to develop a joint approach re. modern slavery risks associated with food delivery partners.  Supply Chains    (Led at Group level) Identify opportunities for enhanced due diligence in UK supply chains, drawing on learnings from own operations. Tesco have identified opportunities, for example mapping the tools for enhancing due diligence in the fishing industry, which are being explored further. We will continue to inform and develop our due diligence approach based on learnings from these opportunities and own operations. Verify compliance with our responsible recruitment requirements for suppliers in Thailand and Malaysia, providing access to capacity building training and tools where necessary.  Tesco have commenced verification, which includes both paperwork review and worker interviews, at our supplying sites in Thailand and Malaysia. The closure of borders has delayed our ability to complete verification this year as no new cross-border migrant worker recruitment has occurred. However, the intention is to conclude this exercise by the end of 2022.  22  Provide additional training to ethical auditors on modern slavery and responsible recruitment.    Tesco have updated the 2nd party auditor training to better equip auditors in spotting the signs of modern slavery and accurately report data relating to recruitment fees and costs.  Commence two further Human Rights Impact Assessments in key supply chains.  In 2021 Tesco published their human rights impact assessment on the prawn supply chain.  We commit to conducting another two HRIAs in the next 2 years (by early 2024). These may have a more defined scope or be conducted in partnership with other retailer or industry groups. Further context on HRIA here.  Finalise road maps for key priority areas under Tesco’s broader human rights strategy. This work remains ongoing as part of our commitment to develop these road maps as a longer-term goal.  In addition to publishing this Modern Slavery Statement, as part of Tesco’s governance framework we report annual progress on our human rights programme to the Group Risk and Compliance Committee at least once a year. This includes any critical breaches of our policies, the results of ethical audits, and progress against our commitments to responsibly source priority raw materials. One Stop’s modern slavery natural work team monitors progress against our commitments.     23  Plans for 2022/23.   In the next 12 months we will continue to strengthen our approach to managing the risk of modern slavery within our business and supply chain and ensure our strategy is responsive to changing risks. We will act immediately to address any concerns identified.  Own business and operations  ➢ Widen the scope of our Human Rights Requirements for Procurement to include delivery partnerships and work closely with these third-party partners to better understand and mitigate against modern slavery risks.  ➢ Promote the Modern Slavery & Exploitation Helpline to our Franchise stores.  ➢ Carry out refresher Modern Slavery training for Franchisees and high priority colleagues (Area Managers, Business Development Managers, People Partners and Distribution Managers).  ➢ Review modern slavery training with priority colleagues to identify potential additional priority colleagues to be trained.   ➢ Facilitate colleagues receiving specialised forced labour training by the Consumer Goods Forum and Fair Labour Association.  ➢ Continue to carry out agency worker interviews at our distribution centres.   ➢ Continue to monitor compliance with our Human Rights requirements as stated in our updated Procurement Policy, ensuring effective mitigation of risks within our own operations.  ➢ Continue to work in collaboration with Tesco, to share insights on emerging risks and best practices.  Our supply chains (led at Group level) ➢ Continue support of Herriot Watt University PhD to map social responsibility tools within the fishing sector. ➢ Use the outputs of the Seasonal Worker Scheme growers survey to inform an approach to responsible recruitment in the UK ➢ Continue to work with industry to embed responsible recruitment principles in UK produce supply chains and priority fisheries. ➢ Monitor the ongoing impact of labour shortages on human rights risks, including modern slavery. ➢ Play a key role in the ongoing Modern Slavery Intelligence Network, including live data sharing in 2022. ➢ Use outcome of Reckitt pilot to inform strategy for operational-level grievance mechanisms. ➢ Continue to trial alternative avenues for worker voice and grievance reporting, such as &Wider, as a means for identifying risks.  