 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy Statement R. & H. Hall Limited (R. & H. Hall) acknowledges its responsibilities in relation to ethical business activity and in tackling modern slavery within our supply chain or in any other part of our business. Our policies and our interaction with colleagues, as well as suppliers and customers, continue to reflect our commitment to acting ethically in all our operational matters. We strive to ensure that we, and our supply chain, act in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and have continued to monitor such compliance.  Our Business R. & H. Hall has been the leading supplier to the Irish feed industry of grain and non-grain feed ingredients since 1839, and is an organisation jointly owned by W. & R. Barnett, Limited and Origin Enterprises Plc.  Due Diligence   We have in the past reporting period: 1. undertaken a risk assessment, of areas within our businesses and our supply chains identified by the legislation, with particular focus on child labour, forced labour, health and safety, workers’ rights, diversity and minimum pay; and 2. taken steps to assess and manage the risks identified including:  a. auditing our supply chain and recruitment agencies we use (as outlined below); b. providing training to members of the team, management and board members; c. complying with our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement; and d. adhering to our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking policy.  Assessing and managing risk Through our risk assessment, we consider that recruitment (direct and indirect) and supply chains are key areas which our business must control in order to limit risk of slavery and human trafficking.   Specifically and in relation to our supply chain, we have used the 2018 Global Index Data to identify high risk countries where our suppliers may operate. We source grains and non-grains from suppliers world-wide and we audit high risk suppliers annually to identify whether they present any concerns regarding modern slavery. To manage this risk and to ensure those within our supply chain are also aware of their obligations, we have rolled out a compliance initiative as part of our Quality Assurance programme and vendor approval process. Our ethical trading risk assessments now form an integral part of the approval process for new vendors; and will include annual spot checks for approved vendors. In the past financial period from 1st August 2021 to 31st March 2022, we reviewed our supply chain audit process and expanded the reach of our audit sample. We covered this year’s audit with an easily accessible online questionnaire for our suppliers at risk and also included any new suppliers.  In relation to recruitment, we complete thorough checks on recruitment agencies we use and on prospective employees. Our HR department and/or Recruiting Managers ensure that we only use a small number of agreed reputable recruitment agencies, that are local and based in Ireland. These checks are designed to identify any concerns relating to modern slavery and/or human trafficking and such processes are more specifically outlined in our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy.   Effectiveness of our procedures To measure our effectiveness in ensuring that modern slavery is not taking place in our business or supply chains, we compile the responses received from our audit questionnaire so these can be assessed. This process allows us to identify any concerning responses received, compare these with previous responses, and follow up with any entities, if required. We include these responses in our annual modern slavery report which assists us to assess the measures we have taken to seek to combat modern slavery.  Training We continue to train our staff on the issue of modern slavery within our supply chains and across our business, extending the reach deeper into the organisation. In the past financial year, we updated our training presentation, which was then made available online to ensure that all staff can easily register and access the training as required. The updated refresher training has now been rolled out to all Barnett-Hall staff during Q1 and Q2 of 2022. We will continue to roll out this training to any new staff joining the company going forwards.  Policies We are committed to addressing modern slavery and ensuring ethical compliance and have developed policies which reflect the values we adhere to as a business. We have successfully updated our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking policy, which was approved by the board and incorporated in our employee handbook. All existing managers have now been trained on this new policy and they are aware of their refreshed responsibilities. Furthermore, the new policy has been uploaded to the company’s intranet on SharePoint, where it is easily accessible for all staff members. This also forms part of induction training for all new starts and includes a provision to address a safe mechanism for whistleblowing. Relevant policies can be made available to third parties on request.  This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in relation to the financial year ending March 2022. This statement was reviewed and approved by the Board on the 1st September 2022.   Ryan McAuley    Chief Executive R & H Hall Limited  29th September 2022   