 Modern Slavery Annual Statement – 2022  We are fully committed to operate with integrity, honesty and ethics and in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations relating to Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking.  The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”) requires certain businesses to state the actions that they have taken during the financial year to ensure Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking is not taking place in their operations and supply chains.  This statement describes any steps we have taken and are continuing to take to ensure that Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking does not take place within our supply chain or any part of our business for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 and is made in accordance with Section 54, Part 6 of the Act (2015).  We recognise and understand our responsibility to manage and seek to prevent, the risks of human trafficking, forced, bonded and child labour and to respect human rights in our operations and our supply chain. Our commitment to our stakeholders is that we will always treat people in our business and supply chain fairly and with respect.   1. Organisation structure and supply chains We are a supplier of agricultural machinery and equipment, parts and related services operating in the Midlands of the UK.  We have 7 outlet locations with an 8th in development and a 9th undergoing acquisition.  We currently employ 116 people.  Our supply chains are extensive and global.  2. Policies in relation to slavery and human trafficking We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or any part of our business. Our Modern Day Slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting with integrity, honesty and ethics in all business relationships and doing all we can to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our business or supply chains.  3. Due diligence processes As part of our initiative to identify and mitigate risk, it is important that we conduct due diligence within our supply chains and operations to understand whether there is evidence of Modern Slavery issues, and whether there are sufficient controls in place. We have decided to implement a Sharmans Modern Slavery Supplier Statement – to be sent to all current suppliers for completion in order seek assurances with regards to:  Identifying potential risk areas in our supply chains  Mitigate the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring in our supply chains.  Monitor potential risk areas in our supply chains.  In addition to this we offer protection to staff members with our Whistle Blowing Policy.  4. Risk assessment and management In order to assess and manage the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking we will implement a Sharmans Modern Slavery Supplier Statement – to be sent to all current suppliers for completion in order seek assurances with regards to:  Identifying potential risk areas in our supply chains  Mitigation of the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring in our supply chains.  Monitor potential risk areas in our supply chains. We aim to encourage openness and will support anyone who raises genuine concerns in good faith under this policy, even if they turn out to be mistaken. We are committed to ensuring no one suffers any detrimental treatment as a result of reporting in good faith their suspicion that modern slavery of whatever form is or may be taking place in any part of our own business or in any of our supply chains.  5. Key performance indicators to measure effectiveness of steps being taken We would monitor all responses from our Supplier Statements for Modern Slavery in terms of potential risks and we would keep track of all those suppliers failing to complete the statement and instigate a follow-up procedure until all statements are completed and returned.  6. Training on modern slavery and trafficking Training on our modern slavery policy, and on the risk our business faces from modern slavery in its supply chains, may form part of the induction process.  Our policy is communicated to all staff via email and is available for access at any time on our company Intranet.  Should any potential risks within our supply chain arise we would seek to provide any necessary training to deal with it effectively.  This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our company slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31st December 2021 and board approval has been given.  Signed:  Sally-Anne Hazard Marketing Director Sharmans Agricultural Ltd 29/7/2022  