Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Reference Version 5 CP 11 Amended By Matthew Keeffe Authorised By Stephen Boylan Date 18/03/2022 Page 1 of 1 Signature Flatbreads (UK) Limited (“Signature Flatbreads” or “Company”) is a Food Manufacturing Company with seven units in the Dunstable area. Our Company Technical Strategy statement is to be a technically led business, proud of the quality of our products and the standards we operate to. It is important to us that we employ ethical business practices and as an employer we are committed to complying with the Ethical Trading Initiative. We regularly review all our terms of employment to ensure that they comply with all relevant legislation. In order that the Company continually monitors and refreshes its approach, we will and already do provide training to our staff on an annual basis, via our policies, procedures and educational material.  We manage our suppliers of raw materials and services to ensure that they also comply with our ethical policy. We are committed to doing what we can to combat slavery and human trafficking. Our commitment to anti-slavery and trafficking extends through our suppliers and partners to the company and we ensure all suppliers conform to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 through their own statements or membership of the supplier’s ethical codes of conduct.  Signature Flatbreads does not wish to support or deal with any business knowingly involved in slavery or human trafficking in any part of its operations. We have taken appropriate steps to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains. These steps include: •Requiring new suppliers to declare that they are not involved in modern slavery or human trafficking andhave not been subject to any investigation in connection with any offence involving slavery or humantrafficking.  Suppliers are also required to advise the Company on any steps they have taken toremediate any modern slavery acts discovered.•Provisions in our specification template documentation require our suppliers to take appropriate steps toensure that there is no slavery or human trafficking in their supply chains.•Employment Agencies are audited twice per year and are required to inform their staff of modern slaverythrough induction.•The Company has developed its own child remediation policy in furtherance of our compliance with theActWe will assess any instances of non-compliance with our requirements on a case-by-case basis and we will then tailor remedial action appropriately. We will only trade with those who fully comply with this policy or those who are taking verifiable steps towards compliance. This statement is made under section 54(1) and (2) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It constitutes Signature Flatbread's slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 2021. The turnover of the Company exceeds £36 million for that period. This statement is approved by the Signature Flatbreads (UK) Ltd Board. It will be reviewed and updated as necessary or on an annual basis.  21 March 2022 William Eid CEO - Signature Flatbreads (UK) Ltd Date 