Syngenta Limited, Syngenta UK Limited, Syngenta Holdings Limited Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement   This statement is made pursuant to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and relates to the financial year ended 31st December 2021. References in this statement to Syngenta (“we”, “our”) are to the Syngenta AG group, which includes Syngenta Limited, Syngenta UK Limited and Syngenta Holdings Limited. Syngenta Limited, Syngenta UK Limited and Syngenta Holdings Limited all apply and operate to the standards and practices set out below.   Syngenta Syngenta is a leading science-based agtech company. We help millions of farmers around the world to grow safe and nutritious food, while taking care of the planet.  Syngenta innovates with world-class science to protect crops and improve seeds. We support farmers with technologies, knowledge and services so they can sustainably provide the world with better food, feed, fibre, and fuel. At the heart of Syngenta’s contribution is The Good Growth Plan comprising four ambitious commitments and targets for 2025. We are accelerating our innovation to provide solutions for farmers to make agriculture more resilient and sustainable. We strive for carbon neutral agriculture, while continuing our work to enhance biodiversity and soil health. We are reinforcing our existing commitment to help people stay safe and healthy in our operations and on the field. Finally, we want to achieve these commitments in partnership with others and through open dialogue about the value of agriculture innovation for farmers, nature and society. Our business depends on sustainable natural resources, healthy ecosystems and thriving rural communities, which is why Syngenta cooperates with industry partners, governments and NGOs to support the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).   Our policies on slavery and human trafficking Syngenta is committed to uphold labour rights in our own operations and we work with our suppliers to do the same. Syngenta takes positive action to verify, evaluate and address the risk of labour rights violations such as slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain. Syngenta’s commitment to fair labour practices is publicly communicated through our Good Growth Plan and our participation as a UN Global Compact signatory adhering to the Principle 4: “the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor”. Syngenta’s pledge to human rights is expressed in the Syngenta G r o u p Code of Conduct, in that we comply with all national and international laws, codes and conventions and are committed to upholding the principles set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s core conventions. This commitment is also expressed in our Principles for Sustainable and Responsible Agriculture and the Syngenta Labor Standards. We seek to improve our human rights performance by referencing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Clear policies guide all Syngenta’s procurement activities around the world. We share our standards  and principles with our suppliers and expect them to live up to them when they are  working with us. In addition, our Minimum Requirements for suppliers focus on fair labour practices with special reference to Illegal, Forced, Bonded & Compulsory Labour. This document forms an integral and binding part of our contractual relationships with our suppliers.  Syngenta Initiatives Labour standards are a priority concern for all Syngenta’s farms and production plants. We expect the same from our suppliers and take positive action to ensure fair labour conditions in our supply chain. Syngenta audits supplier performance to ensure compliance with our standards and identify opportunities for improvement. These audits help us identify compliance gaps where immediate action is needed as well as areas requiring systemic solutions. We develop corrective action plans in collaboration with local stakeholders to address and remediate any non-conformities. Under Syngenta’s Fair Labor Program, we expect our over 65,000 seed supply farms to live up to our standards in the following areas: Employment Relationship; No discrimination, harassment and abuse; No forced and child labour; Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; Health, Safety and Environment; Fair Hours of Work; and Fair Compensation. In 2021, the Fair Labor Program coverage of our seed supply chain reached 99.7%. We engage with our chemical suppliers through our Supplier Sustainability Program in line with the Together  for Sustainability (TfS) framework. Through the TfS initiative, we work collectively with other chemical companies to assess and improve sustainable sourcing practices consistent with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, Responsible Care® and the International Labor Organization. Our Supplier Sustainability Program consists of on-site audits by our own auditors and audits or assessments conducted through the TfS initiative. The program assesses suppliers’ performance against our standards, identifies potential gaps and supports suppliers to make the required improvements. In 2021, work continued to increase the coverage of suppliers in the program. In Syngenta’s flowers business, most of our Syngenta and third party commercial flower farms hold a  GLOBALG.A.P.  and G.R.A.S.P.  (risk assessment on social practice) certifications. G.R.A.S.P. assesses social practices on the farm, addressing specific aspects of workers’ health, safety and welfare. Please see our ESG Report 2021 (pg. 58) for the latest up-date and more details on these programs.   Reporting We share data and performance information about these programs publicly on our website, as well as in Syngenta’s ESG Report 2021, which together with our previous ESG Reports can be found at www.esg-reporting.syngenta.com.    Andrew Johnson Director Syngenta Limited, Syngenta UK Limited and Syngenta Holdings Limited 23 June 2022 