Givaudan’s Modern Slavery Statement for Financial Year 2022   Givaudan’s Modern Slavery Statement for Financial Year 2022  Givaudan UK Limited, Givaudan 2007 UK Limited, Givaudan Holdings UK Limited (the UK Companies referred to as “Givaudan”).  This statement is made pursuant to s.54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps that Givaudan has taken and is continuing to take to ensure that modern slavery or human trafficking is not taking place within our business or supply chain.  Givaudan has a zero tolerance approach to any form of modern slavery. We are committed to adhering to high ethical standard and acting with integrity and transparency in all business dealings and to putting effective systems and controls in place to safeguard against any form of modern slavery taking place within the business or our supply chain.   Our business Givaudan is the global leader in the fragrance and flavour industry, offering its products to global, regional and local food, beverage, consumer goods and fragrance partners. Givaudan develops tastes and scents that delight consumers the world over.  The Company operates in two divisions, Flavours and Fragrances.  The Flavour Division offers flavours and tastes for products in confectionery, baked goods, sugar confectionery, chocolates, and chewing gums; beverages, such as soft drinks, fruit juices, and instant beverages; dairy products, including ice creams and yoghurts, desserts, and yellow fats; and savoury products comprising ready-made meals, snacks, soups and sauces, and meat and poultry products.  The Fragrance Division provides fragrance ingredients and active beauty products; fine fragrances, such as signature fragrances and line extensions; and fragrances for use in fabric and personal care, hair and skin care, household and air care, and oral care products.  Givaudan operates in Switzerland, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, North America, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific. As of 31st December 2022, the firm had 2 UK Directors and the Group had over 16,600 full time employees operating from 166 locations across the Globe. Worldwide, Givaudan member firms operate in more than 51 countries and share the commitment to building a better working world. As a member of the Givaudan Group, the UK firm operates as subcontractor to and for other member firms, which are all required to comply with the internal policies, and support the initiatives, set out below.  Givaudan complies every day, in all business activities, with external laws and regulations as well as with our policies, practices and procedures. We facilitate a culture where we can freely discuss and report ethical, compliance and legal issues.   Our policies Within the Givaudan organisation, the Principles of Conduct is a governing charter for ethical behaviour including: Legal and Ethical Dealings provisions. Givaudan believes in compliance with all laws and policies that apply to our business in the countries in which we operate. We are committed to and adhere to the highest ethical standards in all business dealings. Responsible Corporate Citizenship provisions. We are committed to respect for human rights wherever we do business and in all communities in which we are present. We believe in fair employment standards and do not tolerate or practice any form of child exploitation or forced labour or engage with suppliers who do not adhere to a strict anti-slavery policy. Disclosure and Transparency provisions. We encourage all our employees, contractors and workers to come forward with any concerns regarding how colleagues are being treated, practices within our business or supply chain or any violations against any policy operated by us without fear of retaliation or reprisal. If our employees do not feel comfortable contacting their local compliance officer or legal department, they are encouraged to use the Givaudan Compliance Helpline which is confidential and operated in every Company language. Third parties can raise issues in confidence to the Head of Group Ethics and Compliance by email, which is publicly available on Givaudan’s designated Human Rights website.   In addition to the Principles of Conduct, Givaudan has further policies and procedures including: Global Anti-Bribery, Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Policy. This Policy sets out Givaudan’s ethical behaviour standards and the principal anti-corruption rules that apply to our business. Responsible Sourcing Policy. This policy outlines health and safety, social, environment and business integrity principles we require all our suppliers and service providers to acknowledge. Givaudan Human Rights Policy: Givaudan has made an explicit commitment to respect human rights, including labour rights, as outlined in our Givaudan group Human Rights Policy, aligned with the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Position Statement on Social Responsibility: At Givaudan, social responsibility is deeply ingrained in our corporate culture. For Givaudan this entails going beyond financial due-diligence and establishing leading ethics, social and environmental practices at our sites and areas of operations.  Givaudan is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”) which includes principles in the areas of human rights, labour and anti-corruption.   Our suppliers We strictly adhere to compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act as well as the US California Transparency in Supply Chain Act.  Givaudan participates in the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (“SEDEX”) program with the aim to drive improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in our own operations as well as our supply chains. A core principle of SEDEX is to avoid unfair and unsafe labour practices including slavery and human trafficking. As Givaudan uses over 10,000 different ingredients from more than 100 countries in our flavour and fragrance products, we assess and audit our main raw material suppliers on their sustainability performance using the SEDEX principles. All supplier audits are announced and conducted by third parties relying on the SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which is a compilation of best practices, and, we are focussed on working with long-term, strategic partners who demonstrate the same commitment to these standards; to ensure modern slavery plays no part in either their or our business.  As a manufacturing company, our most significant risks in relation to modern slavery are in our supply chain. We endeavour to make all our suppliers aware of our Responsible Sourcing Policy and our Principles of Conduct on or prior to engagement. They are also provided with a vendor expectation document which specifically states that as a signatory to UNGC, Givaudan holds itself to high social and ethical standards and expects its vendors and suppliers to meet the same standards. We require a direct confirmation from our suppliers attesting to their compliance with our ethical and business standards and applicable local laws.     Training We regularly conduct training on Givaudan’s Principles of Conduct for all employees which includes the above mentioned principles and charters so that they understand the signs of modern slavery and what to do if they suspect that it is taking place within our business or supply chain.   In addition, we have developed a dedicated training and vigilance module around Givaudan’s expectations on human rights to raise awareness and equip our own procurement employees and selected supply chain stakeholders to detect and mitigate human rights risks  The group maintains a whistleblowing register which is regularly reviewed and monitored and no risks relating to slavery and/or human trafficking have been identified to date.    Our performance indicators We will know the effectiveness of the steps we are taking to ensure that slavery and/or human trafficking is not taking place within our business or supply chain when:   No reports are received from employees  Transparency on full traceability to the raw materials source is provided  No mention of these issues in supplier SEDEX SMETA assessment reports  No pushbacks or reporting received from supply chain when the Responsible Sourcing Policy was released    Approval for this statement This statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 22nd February 2023   Ian Messenger Director and Company Manager - Givaudan UK Limited 