  Financial Year 2021-22 (1st August 2021 – 31st March 2022) United Molasses Group Limited Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement  Background  United Molasses Group Limited is a non-trading parent company of a group of businesses focused on the global trading and marketing of vegetable oils, molasses and related products and the storage of bulk liquids (the United Molasses Group) and its ultimate parent is W&R Barnett Holdings Limited.   Under section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 UK (GB and NI) there is statutory obligation for increased transparency in supply chains, and requires any organisation, in any part of a group structure that supply goods or services with a turnover of £36 million or more to produce a "slavery and human trafficking statement" each financial year. Such an organisation has an obligation to make a statement within 6 months of their year-end, indicating their position, policies and diligence in relation to modern slavery. This is our sixth year of producing Modern Slavery statements for entities within our group, with the most recent statements being prepared for signature on 30th September 2022 for the period 1st August 2021 – 31st March 2022. These statements are published in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and they set out the steps taken by the United Molasses Group during the financial year 1st August 2021 – 31st March 2022 to seek to prevent modern slavery in its business and supply chains.  Policy Statement  United Molasses Group Limited remains committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part of our business which fall within the scope of the United Molasses Group audit sample. Our policies and our interaction with colleagues, as well as suppliers and customers, continues to reflect our commitment to acting ethically in all our operational matters. We continue to review our approach annually, as striving to ensure that we act in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and have continued to monitor such compliance.  Due Diligence  As part of our modern slavery due diligence we are aware that each of the companies within the United Molasses Group which fall within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 have taken the following steps:  1. Undertaken a risk assessment, of areas within our businesses and our supply, with a particular focus on child labour, forced labour, health and safety, workers’ rights, diversity and minimum pay. The risk areas were identified using data published on the 2018 Global Slavery Index; and 2. taken steps to assess and manage the risks identified including: a. Auditing their supply chain; b. New internal online training package;  c. Complying with their Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement; and d. Complying with our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking policy.   Assessing and managing risk  United Molasses Group Limited acknowledges that the greatest risk of modern slavery occurring within the United Molasses Group is via its supply chain. As such, each entity within the United Molasses Group which falls within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 is responsible for producing an annual modern slavery statement, report, and reporting compliance to the United Molasses Group. This is based upon their internal audit and risk assessment of their business, which seeks iterative improvement year on year.  Effectiveness of our procedures  For the financial period 1st August 2021 – 31st March 2022, all companies in the United Molasses Group which falls into the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 have confirmed their compliance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 UK (GB and NI) and have published their statements.  Policies  We are committed to addressing modern slavery and ensuring ethical compliance, and have developed policies which reflect the values we adhere to as a business, including a Whistleblowing Policy, an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy and induction training. These policies have been made available within our staff handbook, and provide both an explanation of our obligations in regard to Modern Slavery, as well as a safe reporting mechanism for whistleblowing. It also reinforces the need for effective systems and controls which seek to ensure as far as possible that modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own business. Relevant policies can be made available to third parties on request.  Training   We have developed training for our staff on the issue of modern slavery within our supply chains and our business and have delivered that training to the Senior Executive and Senior Management team already. A new online training course has just been developed and all new starters will be required to complete the training when they join.  United Molasses Group Limited remains fully committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part of our business or its supply chains which fall within the scope of the group divisions audit sample.   This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in relation to the financial year 1st August 2021 – 31st March 2022. This statement was reviewed and approved by the Board of United Molasses Group Limited on 4th August 2022.   Ben Macer Chief Executive Officer United Molasses Group Limited 29th September 2022 